=== Page 1 ===
CONCERT
GIVEN BY
The Mayor of Melbourne
AND
Mrs. McEacharn,
To receive the Council and Members of
The Melbourne Liedertafel.

TOWN HALL,
SEPTEMBER 27TH, 1899.

=== Page 2 ===


=== Page 3 ===
CONCERT
GIVEN BY
The Mayor of Melbourne
AND
Mrs. McEacharn,
To receive the Council and Members of
The Melbourne Liedertafel.

TOWN HALL,
SEPTEMBER 27TH, 1899.

=== Page 4 ===
ARTISTS.

MISS KATE SAMUELS
(Soprano).

MR. JAMES WADE
(Tenor).

SIGNOR ACHILLE REBOTTAPO
(Baritone).

MISS ELSIE HALL
(Pianiste).

MELBOURNE LIEDERTAFEL AND
ASSOCIATED LADIES CHOIR.

ORCHESTRA,
Kindly assisted by amateurs from the University
Conservatorium of Music.

Hon. Organist:
MR. AUGUST SIEDE.

Hon. Conductor:
PROFESSOR C. W. L. MARSHALL HALL.

=== Page 5 ===
PROGRAMME.

1. OVERTURE.

Die Meistersinger    Richard Wagner

THE ORCHESTRA.

No sooner do the first few bars of this masterly comedy sound than stern Time seems to flag, falter, turn tail, and run back a few centuries, and, like the worthy golosh-clad councillor of Hans Andersen, we wake up to find ourselves a hundred or two years younger, sauntering through the queer old streets of Nürnberg, in the company of those famous master-singers of whose quaint customs we have so often read. We seem to see it all—the various guilds in procession with banners flying! the impetuous, passionate idealist Walther, head-over-ears in love with Master Goldsmith Pogner's daughter; tender little Eva, who shyly returns his passion; the frolicsome apprentices, mimicking the somewhat pompous airs of their masters; and, as, in a dream, scenes the most diverse succeed one another without incongruity conjured up by the spell of music.

2. RECITATIVE AND ARIA—

Die Hochzeit des Figaro    Mozart

Miss KATE SAMUELS.

SUSANNA:—
At last the hour nears, when, O beloved! I shall possess thee entirely. Anxious doubts, begone! vanish for ever! disturb no more the joy of my heart! 'Ah! around me everything appears so gay: Hesperus looks down so smilingly, so smilingly upon my love! Come then, O my well-beloved! let the stillness of night watch over us. O finger no longer, beloved soul! thy friend waits for thee here, full of longing! The moon's silver torch not yet throws forth its light: stillness and peace reign in the fields. The murmur of the west-wind, and the gurgling brook attune every nerve to rapture; the flowers breathe o'er the glad meadows; all invites us to love, joy, and bliss. Come then, beloved! let me no longer await thee! Come that I may crown thy head with roses.

(Score and Orchestral Parts kindly lent by Herr Otto Linden.)

=== Page 6 ===
3. Dramatic Ballad—
La Belle Dame sans Merci
G. W. L. Marshall-Hall
Mr. JAMES WADE.

This wonderful poem represents in an ideal form the overpowering fascination which it is in the power of some women to exert over certain men—a fascination which makes or mars life. This the poets have pictured in "Antony and Cleopatra," "Launcelot and Guinevere," "Tristan and Isolde." The music is an attempt to realise the weird despair of the scene, and the strange irresistible magic of the love which usurps the man's whole being, with all its tender, dreamy delight, of which the eighth stanza is the most marked instance, where the strange harmonic progressions seem to typify the "love-sleep" from which his life long he may never more awaken.

1.
Ah! what can ail thee, wretched wight,
Alone and palely loitering?
The sedge is withered from the lake,
And no birds sing.

2.
Ah! what can ail thee, wretched wight,
So haggard and so woe-begone?
The squirrel's granary is full,
And the harvest's done.

3.
I see a lily on thy brow,
With anguish moist and fever dew;
And on thy cheek a fading rose
Fast withereth, too.

4.
I met a lady in the meads,
Full beautiful—a fairy's child;
Her hair was long, her foot was light,
And her eyes were wild.

5.
I set her on my pacing steed,
And nothing else saw all day long:
For sideways would she lean, and sing
A faery's song.

6.
I made a garland for her head,
And bracelets, too, and fragrant zone;
She looked at me as she did love,
And made sweet moan.

7.
She found me roots of relish sweet,
And honey wild, and nanna dew;
And sure in language strange she said,
I love thee true.

8.
She took me to her elfin grot,
And there she gazed and sighed deep,
And there I shut her wild, sad eyes—
So kissed to sleep.

9.
And there we slumbered on the moss,
And there I dreamed, ah, woe beside!
The latest dream I ever dreamed,
On the cold hillside.

10.
I saw pale kings, and princes, too,
Pale warriors—death-pale were they all—
Who cried—"La Belle Dame sans Merci
Hath thee in thrall."

11.
I saw their starv'd lips in the gloom
With horrid warning gaped wide,
And I awoke, and found me here,
On the cold hillside.

12.
And this is why I sojourn here
Alone and palely loitering,
Though the sedge is withered from the lake,
And no birds sing.

(Keats.)

=== Page 7 ===
4. PART SONG—
Landerkennung    Ed. Greig

SOLOIST—SIGNOR ACHILLE REBOTTARO.

LIEDERTAFEL AND ORCHESTRA.

AND it was Olav Trygvason,
A Sailing on the north sea wide,
Bearing the hope to found a kingdom,
Far on the other side.
Yonder the cliffs appearing,
Like a battlement loom, their dark crest rearing,
And it was Olav Trygvason,
Found he ne'er a spot to land,
E'en like the waves the royal desire,
Shattered upon the strand.
"See!" cried the bard unleaping,
"Yonder snow-covered peaks o'er cloud bands peeping."

And it was Olav Trygvason,
Suddenly he seemed to sight
Towering temples, domes and spires,
Glist'ning in virgin white.
Then vowed the king undaunted,
With his followers to tread that land enchanted,
Onward he went; the rushing streams
Heralded the coming spring;
Swayed in the stormy wind the forest strangely was murmuring,
Sounds as of church bells chiming,
And then spake the king,
Spake as tho' dreaming:
"Here the spot to found our kingdom!
Hell! these temple walls defy thee!
Hearts are swelling, souls are yearning,
God, to thee alone be glory.
"Be my faith as yonder mountains,
Root as deeply, shine as purely;
And as these my faith strive upwards,
On to him, the All Creator,"
Olav's prayer be ours to utter,
As we near the throne of mercy.
Hearts are swelling, souls are yearning,
God, to thee alone be glory
    On to God! On to God!

=== Page 8 ===
5. "A SONG OF DESTINY"
(Schicksalslied) Op. 54.
Johannes Brahms

LIEDERTAFEL AND ORCHESTRA.

Far in yon region of light, where pleasures fail not,
Wander the Spirits blest,
Breathed on by airs of glory, bright and divine,
Like a harp, when a master hand wakes it from silence;
Free from care, like a babe that is sleeping, are they in heaven that dwell:
Pure and lowly as half-open'd blossoms
In those fields of light they ever bloom;
And in bliss are their eyes still gazing on clearness calm and eternal.
But man may not linger, and nowhere finds he repose;
We stay not, but wander, we grief-laden mortals,
Blindly from one sad hour to another,
Like water from cliff unto cliff ever dropping
Blindly at last do we pass away.

6. PIANOFORTE SOLO—

(a) "Fantasie Impromptu" Chopin.

(b) Study E Major. Paganini—Liszt.

Miss ELSIE HALL.

=== Page 9 ===
7. SCENA ED ARIA—

Eri tu
Un Ballo in Maschera—Verdi

Sig. ACHILLE REBOTTA RO.

"Get thee up! there, thy offspring I do permit thee to behold, in darkness and in silence; then awhile thy blushes and my shame be hidden."

"No, not on him, on you fragile existence, be my blows directed elsewhere I'll find that which shall wipe out my dishonour, 'tis e'en thy life's blood. From thy base heart my dagger ere long shall bid it swiftly flow—vengeance sternly exacting for all my woe."

And would'st thou thus have sullied a soul so pure,
In whose chasteness my spirit delighted.
Thou betray me, in whose love I felt all secure?
Of my days thou hast poisoned the stream.
Treacherous heart! is it thus he's requitted who the first in thy friendship, yes the first in thy friendship did seem?
O the pangs of a joy aye departed, of caresses that made life a heaven! when Adelia, an angel pure hearted, in my arms grew resplendent with love!
All is over; and hate's bitter leaven my widow'd heart only can move:
Oh the pangs of joy departed; Hope can buoy me no more.

8. OVERTURE.

Oberon  Carl Maria von Weber

THE ORCHESTRA.

He who can enter into the spirit of Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream," will need no other aid to throw himself into the mood in which this masterpiece is written. In delicacy of fancy it is unsurpassed, even by the great tragedian. The opening is delightful, where we hear the distant sound of Oberon's magic horn, and the following bars which so wonderfully depict the drowsy awakening of nature.

=== Page 10 ===
E. WHITEHEAD & CO.,
PRINTERS, &c.,
238 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.

=== Page 11 ===


=== Page 12 ===

