=== Page 1 ===
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, INC.
— R. Zulueta —
presents
AUSTRALIAN YOUTH ORCHESTRA
JOHN HOPKINS, O.B.E., Conductor
TANYA HUNT, Soloist

MERALCO THEATRE
Saturday, July 25, 1970, 8:30 p.m.

=== Page 2 ===
Music I heard with you is more than music* . . .

. . . and furniture is more than craft:
it is the priceless love of beauty
essaying perfectly, each piece in its place —
at home, in the office —
wherever only the best achieves art:
RATTAN ART.

*Conrad Aiken

"At the end of a great symphony there is a sense that
the music has grown by the interpenetrative activity of all
its constituent elements. Nothing is ever allowed to lapse into
aimlessness."
- Robert Simpson, "The Symphony"

When a set or any piece of furniture by Rattan Art is finished,
it is the outcome of many years of consummate artistry,
skill and experience, with nothing ever left aimlessly to chance.

Rattan Art AND DECORATIONS, INC.

MAKATI DISPLAY: Locsin Building, 448 E. de los Santos Avenue,
Makati, Rizal — Tel. 88-34-02

DISPLAY ROOMS:
1310 A. MABINI, ERMITA, TEL. 59-32-68 • INVERNESS: BO. ALMANSA, LAS PIÑAS, RIZAL, TEL. 83-13-96

=== Page 3 ===
AUSTRALIAN YOUTH ORCHESTRA

PROGRAMME
Saturday, July 25, 1970, 8:30 p.m.

Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell, Op. 34 ..................... Benjamin Britten
(Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra) (1913 — )

Concerto for Cello in B flat major ............................................. Luigi Boccherini
TANYA HUNT, Soloist (1743-1805)

I. Allegro moderato
II. Andante grazioso
III. Rondo Allegro

Music for Japan ................................................................. Peter Sculthorpe
(1929 — )

INTERVAL

Symphony No. 8 in G major, Op. 88 ................................. Antonin Dvorak
(1841-1904)

I. Allegro con brio
II. Adagio
III. Allegretto grazioso; molto vivace
IV. Allegro ma non troppo

Any number is subject to change without previous notice.

The advertisers in this souvenir programme have made its free distribution possible.

AUSTRALIAN YOUTH ORCHESTRA: 1970
Founder: JOHN BISHOP, O.B.E.

First Violins:
Alan Bonds, W.A. (Leader)
Dayle Stevens, N.S.W. (Deputy Leader)
Catherine Weise, Vic.
Elizabeth Hunt, Vic.
John Briot, N.S.W.
Julie Batty, N.S.W.
Anne Lajta, Vic.
Cheryl Gadge, N.S.W.
Rosemary Byron, N.S.W.
Helen Cortis, Vic.
Karel Bushby, Tas.
Zsolt Martonyi, Vic.
Rosemary Kerr, A.C.T.
Philip Lajta, Vic.
Susan Dobbe, N.S.W.
Ross Skinnerston, Qld.

Second Violins:
Joan Hair, Vic. (Principal)
Lynelle Carrington, Vic.
Cleis Pearce, Tas.
Antony Kitchen, Vic.
Robert Pratt, Vic.
Gay Bonds, W.A.
Antoni Bonetti, N.S.W.
Angela Tolstoshev, S.A.
Suzanne Borrett, N.S.W.
Jennifer Cockburn, A.C.T.
Robert Minasian, Vic.
Margaret Ferguson, N.S.W.
James Ferguson, S.A.
Anne Shirley, N.S.W.

Librarian and Orchestral Manager: Maureen White

Violas:
Keith Crellin, Qld. (Principal)
Robyn Brookfield, N.S.W.
Irene Morozov, N.S.W.
Damien Thomson, S.A.
Ian Cumming, Vic.
Marion Bonds, W.A.
Marily Wilson, N.S.W.
Cheryl Batty, N.S.W.
Juliet Shaxon, S.A.
Julienne Silverwood, Vic.
Lawrence Jacks, Vic.
Sue Gunter, Vic.

Cellos:
Janis Laurs, S.A. (Principal)
Tanya Hunt, Vic.
David Milner, N.S.W.
David Fairs, S.A.
David Penfold, N.S.W.
Janis Svilans, S.A.
Ruth Saffir, Vic.
Penelope Gunter, Vic.
Patricia McMeekin, N.S.W.

Basses:
Stephen Martin, N.S.W. (Principal)
Trevor James, Vic.
Margaret Pride, W.A.
Peter Sullivan, Vic.
Michael O'Loghlin, N.S.W.
Geoffrey Cox, Qld.
Ruth Wilkinson, Qld.

Harp:
Julie Raines, Vic.

French Horns:
Jerome Deakin, Vic. (Co-Principal)
Philip Smart, N.S.W. (Co-Principal)
Simon Meighan, Vic.
David Stanhope, Vic.
Andrew Joy, W.A.

Trumpets:
Alan Taylor, Vic. (Principal)
Andre Oosterbaan, S.A.
Gray Sutcliffe, Tas.
James Dempsey, Qld.

Piccolos:
Joannes Roose, S.A.
Gregory Lohe, S.A.

Oboes:
Graham Powning, N.S.W. (Principal)
Stephen Monaghan, N.S.W.
Sharman Pretty, S.A.

Cor Anglais:
Sharman Pretty, S.A.

Clarinets:
Gregory Blackman, N.S.W. (Principal)
Alan Vivian, N.S.W.
Gillian Woolhouse, Tas.

Tuba:
Phillipa Conway, N.S.W.

Bassoons:
John Noble, N.S.W. (Principal)
Anne Care, Vic.
Janet Douglas, Vic.

Percussion:
Richard Pusz, S.A.
Michael Holland, S.A.
Kenneth Laing, N.S.W.

ABBREVIATIONS, in the order of their appearance:
W.A. — Western Australia
N.S.W. — New South Wales
Vic. — Victoria
Tas. — Tasmania
A.C.T. — Australian Capital Territory
Qld. — Queensland
S.A. — Southern Australia

=== Page 4 ===
Billy Casper
WINNER OF THE 1970 MASTERS GOLF TOURNAMENT
BRITISH SIZE-1.62
Exclusive Distributor:
SHIRO (PHILS.) INC.
7437 YAKAL CORNER MAYAPIS STS.
MAKATI, RIZAL
TEL. NO. 88-83-46
Available at:
R.P.G.A.

=== Page 5 ===
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, INC.
— R. Zulueta —
announces
THE
BRIAN D. BARNES
ONE MAN THEATRE
FESTIVAL

The art of one-man theatre takes a rare combination of artistry, technical skills and incredible feats of memory, to hold audiences at full-length performances, often without intervals, and move them through the whole range of human emotions, from laughter to tears. Brian D. Barnes has mastered the art superbly.

Four Different Programmes
3rd to 13th September, 1970
at the
San Miguel Auditorium
Makati, Rizal

1. BECKET: World Premiere in the Philippines. An adaptation from Alfred, Lord Tennyson's tragedy of Becket, with additional scenes and lines from The Chronicles.
2. PICKWICKIANS AT MANOR FARM: A new production, the script presents the happiest side of Charles Dickens' immortal Pickwick Papers, with Brian D. Barnes playing some 20 Dickensian characters.
3. UNDER MILK WOOD: First performed and highly-acclaimed in Manila in 1968. By popular demand a return of Dylan Thomas' modern classic, a play for over 36 voices.
4. RECITATION: Melodramas of poetry and prose set to the music of R. Strauss, Schubert, Schumann and Poulenc, originally composed for recitation with pianoforte. With REGALADO JOSE at the piano.

Galas: ₱20 & ₱15 — Matinees: ₱10 & ₱7

=== Page 6 ===
BECKET
World Premiere in the Philippines

This unprecedented cultural "first" in the Philippines is in commemoration of the Eight-Hundredth Anniversary of the death of Thomas Becket in 1170. The basis of this adaptation for Brian D. Barnes' One-Man Theatre is Alfred, Lord Tennyson's tragedy of Becket, with scenes and lines added from The Chronicles. The Encyclopaedia Britannica has this to say of Tennyson's Becket: "In the autumn of 1884, his tragedy of Becket was published, but the poet at last despaired of the stage and disclaimed any hope of 'meeting the exigencies of our modern theatre.' Curiously enough, after his death Becket was one of all his plays which enjoyed a great success on the boards." As such, it was one of the favourite roles of the distinguished English actor, Sir Henry Irving. Brian D. Barnes will perform "BECKET" without interval.

UNDER MILK WOOD

"It would be hard for any work of art to communicate more directly and funnily and lovingly what it is to be alive," writes poet-critic Randall Jarrell of Dylan Thomas' Under Milk Wood. Here, in the masterpiece completed just before his tragic death in 1953, Dylan Thomas gave fullest expression to his sense of the magnificent flavor and variety of life. The stage production of Under Milk Wood, given as an experiment at the Edinburgh Festival, was brought to London where it was the surprise success of the season, and then to Broadway. Enthusiastic audiences agreed with the critics who called it "probably the richest and certainly the earthiest theater experience of the season, and a dazzling combination of poetic fireworks and music-hall humor." Barnes' complete rendition of the over 36 different voices in Under Milk Wood has become a sturdy perennial in his ever-growing repertory, hailed wherever he has brought his One Man Theatre upon repeated invitation.

=== Page 7 ===
THE PICKWICKIANS AT MANOR FARM

This first presentation in Manila is commemorative of Charles Dickens' death one hundred years ago. The script presents the happiest side of Dickens' Pickwick Papers. The original intention was to build the situations centering around Mr. Winkle, but very quickly it became evident that he cannot be divorced from the rest of the club. The two visits at Manor Farm provide a continuity of story and character, thus comprising a certain wholeness to the episodes. Above all, it introduces the audience to some of the most immortal and beloved of Dickens' characters. Pickwick Papers achieved great success in the English-speaking world, as well as in translation. Pickwick hats, Pickwick coats, canes, cigars and all manner of fads were produced with a fervour rivalling the pop image of today for the then 25-year old author, who dressed "in the very height of the existing fashion, with long hair falling in silky masses over his temples."

RECITATION: MELODRAMA

Melody-drama . . . not to be confused with the 19th Century English theatre pieces also called melodramas. In the recitation-melodrama, the musical phrase and the spoken word must characterise each other, the phrases fit together and require careful timing. It does not enter into the area of improvisation as in the case of certain renditions of poetry and jazz. Many major composers wrote works as declamation or recitation to music for pianoforte, including Liszt, Schubert and Schumann. The same concept appears in some of Mozart's operatic works, in Beethoven's operas "Fidelio" and "Egmont," and Weber's "Der Freischutz." In the 20th Century there are examples by Janacek, Honegger, Searle, Copland, Stravinsky and Prokofiev.

PIANO: REGALADO JOSE.

PROGRAMME

ENOCH ARDEN: Music by Richard Strauss; poem by Tennyson.
FAREWELL TO THE WORLD: Music by Schubert; poem by A. von Pratobevera.
THE WAIF: Music by Schumann; ballad by Friedrich Hebbel.
THE FUGITIVES: Music by Schumann; poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
BABAR THE LITTLE ELEPHANT: Music by Poulenc; words by Jean de Brunhoff.

=== Page 8 ===
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, INC.
— R. Zulueta —
announces
One Performance Only
by the Hungarian-born Pianist
BELA SIKI

Philamlife Auditorium
Sunday, October 18, 1970

PROGRAMME
Bach ....... Partita No. 6 in E Minor
Beethoven ... Sonata Op. 53: Waldstein
Chopin ...... Three Mazurkas
            Op. 50, No. 3 in C sharp Minor
            Op. 17, No. 4 in A Major
            Op. 33, No. 2 in D Major
Ravel ...... Gaspard de la Nuit

=== Page 9 ===
AUSTRALIAN YOUTH ORCHESTRA

The Australian Youth Orchestra, comprising teenage musicians, recruited throughout Australia, is one of seven foreign symphony orchestras listed to perform at Osaka's Expo '70. It was founded 13 years ago by the National Music Camp Association.

The orchestra has been continuously revitalized with fresh and upcoming talent from the youth range. It has been engaged to play each year in one or another of Australian capital cities by the Australian Broadcasting Commission (ABC) or the organizers of the Adelaide Festival of Arts. Performances have been made in conjunction with visiting conductors and celebrity soloists such as Van Otterloo, Kentner, Barenboim, Atzmon, Anievas, etc., and at other times with outstanding young Australian instrumentalists under the orchestra's regular conductor, John Hopkins. It has featured in the ABC Youth series, has given concerts in schools, and in 1966 made a Royal Command Performance for the visiting Queen Mother at the Adelaide Festival of Arts.

The Osaka trip, sponsored jointly by the Australian Government and the Japan Association for the 1970 World Exposition, will be the orchestra's first overseas visit. In recent years a number of highly-rated youth orchestras of this kind have added an exciting splash of color to international music, and as the standards rise it becomes less necessary to stress that the best of them are able to stand comparison with all but the internationally famous big-name orchestras. This applies particularly in Britain, Europe, the United States, Japan and Australia, where serious orchestral music-making, under the guidance of trained music teachers and professionals, begins for many children at kindergarten age.

Australia was one of the first countries and remains one of the few to create a truly national young symphony orchestra. How good can this kind of youth orchestra be? How can youngsters, busy with so many other aspects of education and pleasure, match the skill, the precision and the musical insight of professionals? The answer is that even if they cannot always match the professionals, they bring a special quality of adventurous freshness plus youthful vitality and enthusiasm to the presentation of even the most difficult music.

When world-famed pianist, Hepzibah Menuhin played the Konzertstück of Weber with one of the young orchestras at a national summer Music Camp, she said: "This is so much more fun than playing with what are called the great orchestras. Here I feel really related, through music-making, to everybody on the platform and in the hall."

NOTE: The concert attire of the A.Y.O. was specially designed for their performances at Osaka Expo '70 and their Manila engagement.

JOHN HOPKINS, O.B.E.

Her Majesty the Queen of England has just honoured John Hopkins with the Order of the British Empire decoration, in recognition of his distinguished achievements in music.

John Hopkins has had a long and close association with the Australian Youth Orchestra, having conducted its concerts in five of the last eight years. Since 1963 he has regularly attended the National Music Camp each January to conduct the First Orchestra which consists mainly of Australian Youth Orchestra players.

Born in England in 1927, John Hopkins trained at the Royal Manchester College of Music, the Guildhall School of Music, London, and the Mozarteum, Salzburg. For eight years he was resident conductor with two B.B.C. orchestras before being appointed conductor of the National Orchestra of New Zealand Broadcasting Corporation in 1957, a position he held until 1963.

He has conducted extensively throughout Europe including the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, and has appeared in Asia and North America.

As ABC's Director of Music since 1963 he makes regular visits overseas to survey the musical scene, the last being in 1969 when he visited London, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Cologne, Munich, Vienna, Bratislava, Dublin, Boston and Cleveland.

He attended the International Rostrum of Composers in Paris and the Tanglewood (Lenox) and Cleveland Festivals in the U.S.A.

Hopkins is the popular inaugurator and conductor of the successful Sydney Proms. Begun six years ago they now attract large and enthusiastic crowds, eager for new music in an informal atmosphere. This series of five concerts now sells out on the opening day each year.

1970 saw the establishment of the Melbourne Proms with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra under Hopkins playing to capacity houses. He also regularly conducts ABC orchestras in other States and is a frequent visitor to the Composers' Workshop, an annual feature of the Festival of Perth.

TANYA HUNT

Young Melbourne cellist Tanya Hunt won the Commonwealth Finals of the ABC's Instrumental and Vocal Competitions last year. This was Tanya's first appearance in this competition.

At 18 she has been judged one of the finest young musicians in Australia today.

She began her musical studies with her mother at the age of seven and has since been the star pupil of several of Melbourne's leading cello teachers.

Tanya Hunt has attended the National Music Camp for the past five years and been a member of the Australian Youth Orchestra for the past three. She visited the Adelaide Festival in 1968 with the orchestra, and accompanied it last year when it gave concerts in Sydney.

She is at present a full-time student in the Concert Diploma Course at the Melbourne University Conservatorium and hopes to go overseas soon to study with André Navarra at the Paris Conservatoire.

In 1970, for the fourth successive year, she won first prize in the Chamber Music Section of the Dandenong Festival with her pianist sister.

Also this year she was soloist with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra conducted by John Hopkins at the Sydney Prom Concerts.

She has appeared recently as soloist with the Astra Chamber Orchestra and she has also played for the Musical Society of Victoria.

=== Page 10 ===
PROGRAMME NOTES

VARIATIONS AND FUGUE ON A THEME OF PURCELL, OP. 34 . . . BENJAMIN BRITTEN

Benjamin Britten is probably the most outstanding British composer of today.

This piece is subtitled "The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra", and Britten wrote it in 1935, when he was in his early twenties, to accompany a film called The Instruments of the Orchestra. The film was composed and conducted by Sir Malcolm Sargent, and it has since been dubbed in fourteen different languages, so great is its popularity.

The work is a witty and ingenious composition illustrating the contribution each individual instrument makes to the orchestra and how each instrument fits into the orchestra as a whole. It consists of three main divisions: (a) a theme; (b) fourteen variations thereon; (c) a fugue.

The theme comes from Purcell's incidental music to Abdelazar (or "The Moor's Revenge"), written, probably, in 1695. This broad tune is at once announced by the full orchestra and is then repeated by the four sections of the orchestra (woodwind, strings, brass and percussion) in turn, followed by a full orchestral repeat.

Next we come to the interesting middle section (b)—fourteen variations—where each instrument (quickly accompanied sometimes) gives its own version of the opening tune. The instruments enter, section by section (the higher-pitched instruments first and the lower-pitched last) in the following order:—WOODWIND: (1) flute, (2) piccolo, (3) oboes, (4) clarinets, (5) bassoons; STRINGS: (6) violins, (7) violas, (8) cellos, (9) double basses, (10) harp; BRASS: (11) horns, (12) trumpets, (13) trombones and bass tuba; and finally, the PERCUSSION: (14) tympani, bass drum and cymbals, tambourine and triangle, side-drum and Chinese block, xylophone, castanets and gong and whip. All these fourteen variations differ from each other, and each is in a style characteristic of the instrument concerned.

CONCERTO FOR CELLO IN B FLAT MAJOR . . . LUIGI BOCCHERINI

Soloist: TANYA HUNT

Luigi Boccherini was born in Lucca, Italy, on the 19th February, 1743, and he died in Madrid in 1805. His life period was similar to that of Joseph Haydn (1732-1809) and his artistic ideals were almost identical. Haydn and Boccherini appear never to have met although they did exchange mutual regards by way of their publisher Artaria. When Boccherini's entire output is added together it comes to nearly 500 works, and includes 112 quartets for two violins, viola and two cellos, 91 string quartets, 48 trios for two violins and cello, 20 symphonies, and an opera, as well as a number of concertos—a tribute to his amazing facility.

When Boccherini was in his early twenties he toured with the violinist Filippo Manfredi, who was a pupil of Tartini. In 1768 they reached Paris where Boccherini's music, in particular his chamber music, was such a success that the Spanish Ambassador, a musical enthusiast, invited Boccherini to extend his concert tour to Madrid, which he did in the following winter. Unfortunately, neither the King nor the Prince of the Asturias took any notice of him, but he found a sympathetic friend in the King's brother the Infante Don Luis, to whom he dedicated six quartets. He stayed in Spain until 1785 when he was appointed chamber composer to the King of Prussia, who was a keen cellist. This appointment lasted for twelve years and when the King died Boccherini returned to Madrid where he spent the remaining years of his life until his death in 1805.

Writing of Boccherini, the well-known music writer Sondheim has this to say—"The technique of stringed instruments, which, in conformity with the demands of the development in style, progressed during the eighteenth century from almost primitive simplicity to all-embracing brilliance, was led on to its final stage by Boccherini. At the present day it may seem that the permanent artistic value of Boccherini's work is but small. His personality was indeed soon to be overshadowed by the classical masters, but, in the history of musical development at least, he deserves a place among the principal composers of all time."

Boccherini's Cello Concerto in B Flat is one of the best-known of his works for this instrument. There are three movements, the first in sonata form has many brilliant passages for the solo instrument. The slow movement is quite short but eloquent. The last movement is a Rondo on a straightforward theme. This melody is cleverly brought back each time, after episodes which exploit the whole range of the cello's capabilities.

MUSIC FOR JAPAN . . .

We are grateful to the composer for providing this programme note—

"Perhaps I should have called this work 'Music for Japan from Australia', because I want the Australian Youth Orchestra to take to Japan music that says something of my own country. If the view of desert and sea, bush and city seems to be a personal one, it's because I want also to send music that says something about me. Some of the most memorable times of my life have been in Australia and Japan.

Written especially for the Australian Youth Orchestra, Music for Japan is quite adventurous in its sonorities and in the means required

NOTE: The National Music Camp Association commissioned Mr. Sculthorpe to write a work for the A.Y.O. especially for its tour to Japan during Expo '70. The Australian Advisory Board of the Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers (Prime Minister's Department) kindly and generously assisted the Association with the honorarium to Mr. Sculthorpe.

SYMPHONY IN G MAJOR, NO. 8, OP. 88 . . . ANTONIN DVORAK

The simple, carefree mood of the G major Symphony long ago endeared it to concertgoers. Compositions often arouse widely contrasted feelings in listeners. The G major is not one of them. English critics in 1890 spoke of it as "pastoral", teeming with "rural sights and sounds", and stressed its freshness and charm. To an American critic writing in 1941, the score was "recolored of the Bohemian countryside, and marked by a decided charm and allure." The word "idyllic" occurs so often in references to the symphony that if a title were needed "Idyllic Symphony" would serve as well as any.

In the introduction of the opening movement (Allegro con brio, 4/4, G major) a lovely song of melancholy, in G minor, is uttered by cellos and horns. With the final cadence the mood changes to major and the flute brings in a bright theme which has been likened to the "chirping of a bird." A cadenza then leads to the first chief subject in the cellos. The strings chant part of the second theme, then taken up by clarinets and flutes. The woodwinds now usher in a delicate motif pianissimo, the whole orchestra soon shouting it fortissimo. The movement is remarkable for its wealth of full-fledged themes, which are set off in contrast rather than fully developed.

The second movement (Adagio, 2/4, C minor and major) begins with a somber phrase reiterated by the strings. This prefatory passage contains the melodic and rhythmic material of the first section.

to produce these. It might be called a 'sound piece', because, like my Sun Music series, it's made up of sound-impressions. Much as I enjoy writing melodies, in this work I've used no conventional melodic shapes, in order to get more fully an abstraction of my feelings.

Music for Japan is scored for a normal orchestra, with amplified percussion. Rather than provide a detailed programme note, I should like to say only that the work lasts for approximately twelve minutes; this may give the listener a sense of shape and flow within a certain period of time."

—Peter Sculthorpe.

PETER SCULTHORPE

Clarinets then discourse it in a minor-and-major exchange frequent in Dvorak's music. In the second section of the movement the strings and winds take turns at a staccato figure accompanying the main melody. The figure is used in building up a striking climax. After repetition, with changes in harmony, a brief coda ends the movement.

An odd device in the third movement (Allegretto grazioso, 3/8, G minor and major), is the "counterpoint of oboe and bassoon, in a virtual Cossack dance, to the theme of the coda, which changes from triple to duple time." With rapid staccati in the winds and counter-themes in the strings contrastingly marked, the effect was thought to be "thoroughly comical" in 1892. What would normally be the trio of a scherzo is taken up with a charmingly simple melody in folk style. It recalls like passages in Schubert's music.

A fanfare of trumpets ushers in the last movement (Allegro non troppo, 2/4, G major) as if heralding a brisk whirl of Bohemian folk dancing. Instead, the strings announce a stately subject in two eight-measure parts, which goes through four variations. Two new themes now appear, one a lyrical solo, the other for clarinets, against a drolly rumbling bass. The tempo speeds up with the return of the first subject. Echoes of the chief subject of the opening movement filter through as the finale mounts to a brilliant climax.

=== Page 11 ===
3°, 4°, maybe 5 degrees cooler than other menthols.

PHILIP MORRIS Menthol 100's
FILTER CIGARETTES
PHILIP MORRIS 100's
PARK AVENUE NEW YORK
PHILIP MORRIS 100's
PARK AVENUE NEW YORK
20 CIGARETTES

And you enjoy 3, 4, maybe 5 puffs more.

Philip Morris Menthol 100's

It's rare that something comes along with so many juicy advantages.
Our values begin with our imported quality.
You get from our Philip Morris Menthol 100's the same high quality you find in imported brands.
Our Philip Morris Menthol 100's are filter-tipped.

They taste 3, 4, maybe 5 degrees cooler.
And because they are a lot longer than kingsize menthols, you get 3, 4, maybe 5 puffs more.
And the extra puffs are on us.
You pay less for our Philip Morris Menthol 100's than you now pay for imported kingsize menthol brands.

Philip Morris 100's
2 great blends: Regular & Menthol
ONLY ₱2.00 A PACK
SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE

Authorized by PHILIP MORRIS, INC. New York, U.S.A. Manufactured by La Suerte Cigar & Cigarette Factory, South Super Highway, Paranaque, Rizal

=== Page 12 ===
SINCE 1890

Symbol of Quality

For 80 years, San Miguel Corporation's symbol of quality – recognized the world over – means products of highest standard.

Proud of this achievement, San Miguel Corporation dedicatedly upholds its heritage to give its patrons the traditional quality that has been unsurpassed since 1890.

San Miguel Pale Pilsen
(Bottled)
San Miguel Pale Pilsen
(Draught)
San Miguel Pale Pilsen
(Canned)
San Miguel Cerveza Negra
Glass Containers
Pressed Glassware
Alumina Sand
Corrugated Board Boxes
Aluminum Collapsible Tubes
Tuboplast Polyethylene Containers
Plastics
Applied Color Decorations
Coca-Cola
Royal Tru Orange
Royal Lem-O-Lime
Royal Tru-Lemon
Royal London Dry Ginger Ale
Royal Soda
Royal Quinine Water
Magnolia Ice Cream Products
Magnolia Milk Products
Magnolia Fresh Cow's Milk
Magnolia Choco-Vim
Magnolia Cottage Cheese
Magnolia Cones
Anchor Butter
Poultry & Livestock Feeds
Metal Closures
Metal Lithography
Fleischmann's Active
Dry Yeast
Fleischmann's Fresh
Compressed Yeast
CO2 (Liquid and Solid)

San Miguel Corporation
HOME OF QUALITY PRODUCTS
