=== Page 1 ===
The Musical Society of Victoria
23rd Year. - 1915.

238th Chamber Concert
The Chapter House, St. Paul's Cathedral,
Saturday Evening, 10th April, at 8 p.m.

President: George Peake. Secretary: W. H. Heathcote

Programme

Sonata for Violin and Piano, Op. 24, in E minor Emil Sjögren
(Allegro moderato, Allegretto scherzando, Andante sostenuto, Con fuoco)
Miss Margery Gray, Miss Rita Hope

Cavalier Tunes
(a) Marching along ... ... Louis Lavater
(b) Give a Rouse ... ... Louis Lavater
(c) Boot and Saddle ... ... Louis Lavater
Mr. Henry Thomas

PIANO SOLI
(a) Fantasia in C minor ... ... Bach
(b) Fantasia in C minor ... ... Mozart
(c) Sonata in A major ... ... Scarlatti
Miss Rita Hope

Songs
(a) Meine Liebe ist grün ... ... Brahms
(b) Liebestreu ... ... Brahms
(c) Minnelied ... ... Brahms
Miss Maud Harrington

Violin Solo
Air for the G String ... ... Bach
Miss Margery Gray

Song Cycle
The Princess ... ... C. Villiers Stanford
Words selected from Lord Tennyson's "The Princess."
For Solo Quartette and Pianoforte Accompaniment.
Miss Maud Harrington, Madame Gregor Wood
Mr. Gregor Wood, Mr. Henry Thomas
Miss Rita Hope
Accompaniste: Miss Madge Sissons

General Meeting at conclusion of Programme; all Members are requested to remain.

Business: - To Ballot for Mrs. Eileen Cahill, Miss Amy Fuller, Mr. A. E. Floyd, Mus. Bac. Oxon. (Members), Miss M. Robertson, Miss Murray, Miss J. Black, Miss N. Walker, D.M.S.V., Miss Violet Ewart, Mr. W. G. Houston (Subscribers).

=== Page 2 ===
Song Cycle—"The Princess."

1. As Thro' the Land.

As thro' the land at eve we went,
    And pluck'd the ripen'd ears,
We fell out—my wife and I—
    O we fell out, I know not why,
        And kiss'd again with tears.
And blessings on the falling out,
    That all the more endears,
When we fall out with those we love.
        And kiss again with tears.
For when we come where lies the child
    We lost in other years,
O there above the little grave
    We kiss'd again with tears.

2. Sweet and Low.

Sweet and low, sweet and low,
    Wind of the western sea,
Low, low, breathe and blow,
    Wind of the western sea.
Over the rolling waters go,
Come from the dying moon and blow,
Blow him again to me.
While my little one, while my pretty one sleeps.
Sleep and rest, sleep and rest.
    Father will come to thee soon;
Rest, rest, on mother's breast,
    Father will come to thee soon.
Father will come to his babe in the nest,
Silver sails all out of the west;
Under the silver moon
Sleep my little one, sleep my pretty one, sleep.

3. The Splendour Falls.

The splendour falls on castle walls,
    And snowy summits old in story,
The long light shakes across the lakes,
    And the wild cataract leaps in glory.
Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying,
Blow, bugle, answer, echoes dying.
O hark, O hear! How thin, how clear,
    And thinner, clearer, further going!
O sweet and far from cliff and scar,
    The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!
Blow, let us hear the purple glens replying,
Blow, bugle, answer, echoes dying.
O love, they die in yon rich sky,
    They faint on hill or field or river.
Our echoes roll from soul to soul,
    And grow for ever and for ever.
Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying,
And answer, echoes dying, dying.

=== Page 3 ===
Song Cycle—"The Princess."

4. Tears, Idle Tears.

Tears, idle tears; I know not what they mean;
Tears from the depth of some divine despair,
Rise in the heart, and gather to the eyes,
In looking on the happy autumn fields,
And thinking of the days that are no more.

Fresh as the first beam, glitt'ring on the sail,
That brings our friends up from the under world,
Sad as the last which reddens over one
That sinks with all we love below the verge,
So sad, so fresh the days that are no more.

Ah! Sad and strange, as in dark summer dawns,
The earliest pipe of half-awaken'd birds to dying ears,
When unto dying eyes the casement slowly grows a glimm'ring square;
So sad, so strange the days that are no more.

Dear as remember'd kisses after death,
And sweet as those by hopeless fancy feign'd on lips of others:
Deep as love, deep as first love, and wild with all regret;
O Death in Life. The days that are no more.

5. O Swallow, Swallow.

O swallow, swallow, flying, flying south,
Fly to her, and fall upon her gilded eaves,
And tell her what I tell to thee.
O tell her, swallow, that thou knowest each,
That bright, and fierce, and fickle is the south,
And dark, and true, and tender is the north.

O swallow, swallow, if I could follow
And light upon her lattice,
I would pipe and trill, and cheep and twitter
Twenty million loves.

O were I thou that she might take me in,
And lay me on her bosom,
And her heart would rock the snowy cradle till I died.

Why ling'reth she to clothe her heart with love,
Delaying as the tender ash delays to clothe herself,
When all the woods are green.

O tell her, swallow, that thy brood is flown,
Say to her I do not wanton in the south,
But in the north long since my nest is made.
O tell her brief is life, but love is long,
And brief the sun of summer in the north,
And brief the moon of beauty in the south,
Fly to her, and pipe and woo her, and make her mine
And tell her that I follow thee.

=== Page 4 ===
Song Cycle—"The Princess."

6. Thy Voice is Heard.
Thy voice is heard thro' rolling drums
That beat to battle where he stands,
Thy face before his fancy comes
And gives the battle to his hands.
A moment, when the trumpets blow,
He sees his brood upon his knee.
The next, like fire, meets the foe.
And strike him dead for thine and thee.

7. Home they brought her Warrior dead.
Home they brought her warrior dead,
She nor swoon'd nor utter'd cry,
All her maidens, watching, said
"She must weep or she will die."
Then they praised him soft and low,
Called him worthy to be loved;
Truest friend and noblest foe.
Yet she neither spake nor moved.
Stole a maiden from her place,
Lightly to the warrior slept.
Took the facecloth from the face,
Yet she neither moved nor wept.
Rose a nurse of ninety years,
Set his child upon her knee.
Like summer tempest came her tears—
"Sweet, my child, I live for thee."

8. Our Enemies have Fallen.
Our enemies have fall'n!
The seed—the little seed they laughed at in the dark,
Has ris'n and cleft the soil and grown a spanless girth
That lays on every side a thousand arms,
And rushes on the sun.
Our enemies have fall'n!
They came—the leaves were wet with women's tears.
They heard a noise of songs they would not understand;
They marked it with the red cross to the fall,
And would have strown it, but are fall'n themselves.
Our enemies have fall'n!
They came—the woodman with their axes. Lo, the tree!
But we will make it faggots for the hearth,
And shape it plank and beam for roof and floor,
And boats and bridges for the use of men.
Our enemies have fall'n!
They struck—with their own blows they hurt themselves,
Nor knew there dwelt an iron nature in the grain.
The glitt'ring axe was broken in their arms—
Their arms were shatter'd to the shoulder blade.
Our enemies have fall'n!
But this shall grow a night of summer from the heat,
A breath of autumn, dropping fruits of pow'r.
And rolled with music in the growing breeze of time,
The tops shall strike from star to star,
The fangs shall move the stony bases of the world.
