=== Page 1 ===
BEECHAM SUNDAY CONCERTS

ROYAL OPERA HOUSE COVENT GARDEN

=== Page 2 ===
A Distinguished Steinway

There is no question but that the informed music-lover, given his choice of pianos, would unhesitatingly select the Steinway. To the virtuoso, the teacher, the layman, it is the one, incomparable instrument. And it is now within the reach of virtually every one—for the superb model "S" may be had at the strikingly low price of £157 10s. And it is a true Steinway.

Not in a single particular of quality does it depart from the Steinway of Hofmann, Horowitz, Paderewski, Rachmaninoff. The tone is the glorious Steinway tone. The action is the Steinway Action, responsive to the slightest touch of the fingers.

Skilled Steinway craftsmen have made the case an exquisite example of fine cabinet work. In our opinion, this is the finest piano obtainable at the price. You may purchase the Steinway "S" on very generous terms, a small sum down, the balance over an agreed period.

Your Steinway will be delivered at once . . . for you and your children, one of life's happiest days. Come in . . . see, hear and play this amazing instrument at Steinway Hall, or at accredited Agents throughout Great Britain. £157 - 10 - 0 (Fbonised)

In Mahogany or Walnut £165

Model "Z" is an artistic upright, designed for the smallest rooms and most limited budget, is a true Steinway, yet so small, compact and inexpensive that the most knowledgeable marvel at its richness of tone, perfect performance and beautiful design—without question is a masterpiece in miniature.

Mahogany or walnut—Satin finish £84.

THE INSTRUMENT OF THE IMMORTALS STEINWAY
STEINWAY & SONS, 1 & 2 St. George Street, LONDON, W.1

=== Page 3 ===
ROYAL COVENT OPERA GARDEN

Lessees: COVENT GARDEN MUSICAL PRODUCTIONS, LTD.
General Manager: CHARLES A. BARRAND
Secretary: G. C. REYNOLDS

HAROLD HOLT presents the
BEECHAM SUNDAY CONCERTS
Under the Auspices of the Orchestral Concerts Society Ltd

SEASON 1938 - 1939
FIFTEENTH AND LAST CONCERT OF THE SEASON

Sunday, March 19 at 3.15

London Philharmonic Orchestra
Leader - - - - DAVID McCALLUM
SOLOIST:
RENÉ LE ROY
CONDUCTOR:
Sir Thomas Beecham
BART.

=== Page 4 ===
SIR THOMAS BEECHAM. Bart.

=== Page 5 ===
Members of the Audience are courteously requested not to leave the Hall during the Concert except between completed groups of items, to avoid distraction to the Artists and disturbance to others.

Smoking is Prohibited in the Auditorium

PROGRAMME

(Analytical Notes by Edwin Evans)
Author's Copyright

LONDON PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA
Conductor - SIR THOMAS BEECHAM, Bart.

1.
Symphony No. 1 in C Major ... ... ... ... Beethoven
(1770-1827)
    Adagio molto—Allegro con brio.
    Andante cantabile con molto.
    Minuetto e Trio.
    Adagio—Allegro molto e vivace.

It was in the spring of 1795, when Beethoven was studying counterpoint with Albrechtsberger, that he first planned to write a symphony. From the occurrence of sketches among fugal exercises Grove suggests that in the first place it may have been a relief from dry technical work. Originally it was to be in C minor, but presently that key was abandoned in favour of C major. It is not definitely known when it was completed, but probably not long before the first performance, which took place on April 2nd, 1800, at the Burg Theatre. It was Beethoven's first benefit concert, and, in addition to works by Haydn and Mozart, the programme included the Septet and one of the two first Piano Concertos—it is not certain which. The composer also improvised on the theme of Haydn's Emperor's Hymn. Beethoven was thirty at the time. At that age Mozart had written all but the last three of his symphonies, and Schubert seven works in this form, but Brahms was forty-four before he wrote his first symphony.

=== Page 6 ===
The London Philharmonic Orchestra
President - Lady Cunard

1st VIOLINS
Leader:
David McCallum
Principals:
Reginald Morley
Wynn Reeves
T. Carter
E. Roloff
P. Frostick
A. Garth-Jones
J. Wright
H. Darnell
A. Chasey
W. Monro
J. Buyers
J. Cooper
E. Herwitz
J. Kuchmy
H. Parfitt

2nd VIOLINS
Principals:
Reginald Boothroyd
Hugh Wright
M. Quirke
R. Whitaker
U. Tschaikowsky
T. Sammons
L. Connabeer
S. Collins
C. Lake
A. Kirk
H. Ball
T. Oakley
E. Simpson
H. Freeman

VIOLAS
Principals:
Frederick Riddle
Maurice Ward
W. J. Smith
J. Cload
A. McCordall
T. Russell
E. Christensen
W. Glasspool
J. B. Verity
A. Glasspool
L. Braga
R. Patten

GENERAL MANAGER
G. C. Reynolds

ROYAL OPERA HOUSE

VIOLONCELLOS
Principals:
Anthony Pini
Edward Robinson
N. Attwell
B. Rickelman
E. Parker
J. Long
O. Smith
A. Ashby
O. Fyfe
G. Walton

DOUBLE BASSES
Principals:
Victor Watson
John Silvester
H. Green
C. Gray
G. Brooks
H. Fawcett
G. Anthony
A. Alexander

FLUTES
Geoffrey Gilbert
Percy Whitaker
William Smith

PICCOLO
Arthur Ackroyd

OBOES
Léon Goossens
Graeme Crump
William Whitaker

COR ANGLAIS
John Cruft

CLARINETS
Bernard Walton
Edward Augarde
Frank Hughes

BASS CLARINET
R. Temple-Savage

BASSOONS
John Alexandra
George Alexandra

CONTRA BASSOON
Anthony Baines

HORNS
Charles Gregory
Vincent Burrows
Francis Bradley
Frank Probyn
Robert West
Charles Brightmore
Raymond Bryant

TRUMPETS
Richard Walton
Rowland Dyson
Harry Wild
George Barr

TROMBONES
Francis Stead
Joseph Mansfield
William Coleman

TUBA
William Scannell

TYMPANI
James Bradshaw

PERCUSSION
Fred Bradshaw
Charles Turner
Cecil Kearney

HARPS
Marie Goossens
Julia Wolfe

GENERAL SECRETARY
Frederick Laurence

BUSINESS SECRETARY
Mignon Pariera

COVENT GARDEN

=== Page 7 ===
It was Beethoven's first work for the orchestra alone. His only previous orchestral writing consisted of one movement of a discarded violin concerto, and the two first Pianoforte Concertos. The work is scored for the usual orchestra, as employed by Mozart. It is dedicated to Baron von Swieten, who had befriended the composer on his first arrival in Vienna. Because of its close affinity with the works of Mozart and Haydn it has been called "the instrumental swan-song of the eighteenth century," but in spite of that the circumstance that it opens out of the key, and with a discord, gravely incensed several critics of the time, notably the Abbé Stadler.

That discord opens a brief introduction, an Adagio lasting twelve bars. The first subject of the Allegro is characteristic of Beethoven's fondness for emphasising the key. The second subject present itself as a dialogue for flute and oboe over a figure in crotchets which can be regarded as derived from the first. This leads to a brief episode in which the oboe—followed by bassoon—has a counter-subject while the basses quietly continue figures derived from the second subject. Nine bars of coda complete the exposition. The working-out is simple and constructed of alternating fragments from the two subjects, with rather more use of imitation than Beethoven employed in later years. The recapitulation differs in orchestration from the opening, but is otherwise normal. The coda is based upon that which concluded the exposition, but here it is combined with the first subject. About half of the coda is devoted to emphasising the key.

The Andante is built round a lyrical theme and its continuation, with a brief middle section derived from them. A remarkable feature is the use of the drums, which foreshadows much that Beethoven was to write later, notably the well-known passage in the Fifth Symphony. This charming movement, with its Mozartian elegance, is universally liked, but some of Beethoven's contemporaries were inclined to belittle it.

The Minuet has all the character of a true Beethoven Scherzo, from its brisk animation to the suggestion of deeper intent underlying the dance-rhythm. In the second portion of the Minuet there is also a bold modulatory passage, equally characteristic. The Trio consists of a kind of antiphon between wind-chords and string-scales.

The Finale, which is preceded by six bars of Adagio, has the merriment of Haydn together with a touch of the more refined playfulness of Mozart, especially that which occasionally shows itself in rapid conversation among several instruments. Its humour is unlike that which was later to be characteristic of Beethoven. It is not a Rondo, as one might have expected after the preceding movements, but in the form of a sonata-allegro, with the usual two subjects—both of great simplicity, and a short development section followed by recapitulation and coda.

=== Page 8 ===
Luxury Perfumes by Morny
GIFTS OF UNUSUAL CHARM TO SUIT ALL POCKETS.

A gift of Morny perfume is always acceptable, but in the new luxury presentation added charm and delight is certain. Available in all Morny perfumes of loveliness.

CARNATION
CHAMINADE
FRENCH FERN
GARDENIA
JASMINE

JUNE ROSES
LILY OF THE VALLEY
MYSTERIEUSE
PINK LILAC

ROSE-VERVEINE
SWEET PEA
TENTATION
VIOLET
WALLFLOWER

Crystal Vase shaped bottle each in decorative presentation carton.
1 oz. 10/-; 2 oz. 17/6; 4 oz. 31/-;
8 oz. 60/-.

Crystal Grecian Bottle each in Dressing Table stand covered white "Cuir de Paris" with gold decoration.
2 oz. 21/-.

OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD

MADE IN ENGLAND BY MORY - REGENT ST. LONDON

=== Page 9 ===
2.
Concerto in D major for Flute and Orchestra (K314) ... Mozart
RENÉ LE ROY (1756-1791)

Allegro.
Allegro ma non troppo.
Rondo: Allegro.

During the time which Mozart spent at Mannheim, from October 30th, 1777, to March 14th, 1778, he naturally became friendly with the soloists of what was then considered to be probably the finest orchestra in Europe. One of them was the celebrated flautist, Johann Baptist Wendling (1730-1797), one of the four players for whom he was to compose, during their subsequent visit to Paris, the Sinfonia Concertante for flute, oboe, horn and bassoon. When Mozart failed to find employment with the Elector and it looked as if he might have to curtail his stay in Mannheim, he told Wendling who, according to Jahn, grew red in the face and said "we must find some way of keeping you here, at all events for the two months before we go to Paris together." When Mozart dined with him next day they discussed ways and means. One contributor to these was a Dutchman, De Jean or Dechamps, of independent means, who played the flute and may have been a pupil of Wendling. He offered to pay 200 florins for three concertos and two quartets for the flute. He was nicknamed the Nabob, and in one of his letters Mozart refers to him as that true philanthropist, the Indian Dutchman. But Mozart procrastinated. When his father remonstrated with him by letter he replied, that "one is not always in the humor for writing. I could certainly scribble away the whole day; but when a thing is to go forth bearing my name, I am determined that I will not be ashamed of it." In the end the commission was only partly executed and he received only 96 florins in payment. Of the music that originated thus have survived two concertos and a separate Andante (K313-3) and two quartets for flute and strings (K285 and 928), one of which had to be sent from Paris after his departure.

The concerto opens with the usual tutti in which both the principal subjects are introduced in the main key. At its first entrance the flute comments on the principal theme and continues it with a passage modulating to the dominant for the second subject. The continuation of the first subject supplies most of the material of the working-outs section, which is brief. Recapitulation ensues. The whole movement is transparently clear, and, as Jahn says, lively and cheerful.

The orchestra gives out the first phrase of the slow movement, in G major. The solo flute repeats it and adds an after-phrase modulating temporarily to the dominant, but the digression is not extended, and on repetition the same passage serves to prepare the conclusion.

=== Page 10 ===
The principal theme of the Rondo is a very evident anticipation of Blonde's aria Welche Wonne, welche Lust in the Seraglio, which was composed four years later. It is begun on the solo instrument but soon taken over by the orchestra. The episodes consist chiefly of bravura passages for the flute, which is given little rest in this sprightly movement.

3.
Suite, "Pelléas and Mélisande" ... ... ... Sibelius 1865
    (i) At the Castle-gate.
    (ii) Mélisande.
    (iii) A Spring in the Park.
    (iv) The Three Blind Sisters.
    (v) Pastorale.
    (vi) Mélisande at the Spinning Wheel.
    (vii) Entr'acte.
    (viii) The Death of Mélisande.

Maeterlinck's play "Pelléas et Mélisande" is remarkable amongst other things for having inspired several famous composers. Even more remarkable is the astonishing diversity of utterance to which they have been inspired. It would be difficult, indeed, to find works more dissimilar than the vague atmospheric music of Debussy's opera, the delicate, clear-cut, neatly-chiselled incidental music of Fauré, and the gigantic and portentous symphonic poem of Schönberg.

Sibelius's music is again very different from all these, though nearer to Fauré's work, in spirit, than that of any of the others. Curiously enough, this music written to a play by a Flemish dramatist is more definitely Finnish in feeling than much that Sibelius has composed to national subjects. It can have been no mere caprice extraneous form of inducement that led him to incorporate the greater part of it, transcribed for the piano, in the volume of selected piano pieces entitled "Sibeliana"; Scenes from the land of a Thousand Lakes," in which, for example, the piece originally called "Mélisande" becomes "Evening by the Woodland Lake," and "The Death of Mélisande" becomes "The Sun Sinks." The latter titles, indeed, strike one as being even more in keeping with the character of the music from the original ones. However that may be, these little pieces rank amongst Sibelius's finest works in in miniature forms. They are scored for a small orchestra consisting of flute, oboe, cor anglais, two clarinets, two bassoons, two horns, strings and percussion. The work was written in 1905.

The first number, "At the Castle-gate," is the prelude to the first scene of the first act of the drama—broad, sonorous, majestic, tragedy-laden, preoccupied throughout its brief course with one single theme.

=== Page 11 ===
"Mélisande" is played as the prelude to the second scene of the first act—a charming little piece, wonderfully evocative of the character in the play. It begins with the cor anglais solo to an accompaniment of muted violins and violas only. The 'cellos echo and vary it, the cor anglais solo to an accompaniment of muted violin and violas only. The 'cellos echo and vary it, the cor anglais takes it up again, but soon makes way for a new line of thought: a wistful little melody for strings replied to by another slightly gayer one for the wood-wind with a pizzicato accompaniment for the strings. This slender but engaging material is repeated and varied.

A gently, easy-flowing melody for strings to an accompaniment of wood-wind and held notes for the horns constitutes the chief thematic substance of number 3, "A Spring in the Park" (which is the prelude to the second act), for the first part of its course. This is succeeded by a short passage of delicate impressionism, then a sudden and unexpected crescendo culminating in a sonorous climax, after which the music dies away with fragmentary allusions to the initial thought.

"The Three Blind Sisters," a transcription of the song in Act III, Scene 2, consists of a short cor anglais solo, first over a roll for kettle-drums, then entirely unaccompanied, followed by a passage for clarinets supported by horns, then by strings pizzicato, then by horns and drums.

The "Pastorale" is the instrument interlude which follows the words "Quelle belle journée" in Act III, Scene 4. Its character is sufficiently indicated by its title, with wood-wind playing the principle role to an accompaniment of strings and horns. This is one of the simplest and most attractive pieces in the suite.

"Mélisande at the Spinning-wheel," which plays as the prelude to the third act, is, on the other hand, one of the most subtle and elaborate numbers, though none the less attractive. It is ingeniously constructed on an unending whirring figure for violas, descriptive of the spinning wheel, which plays unaltered from first bar to last, against which is projected expressive melodic fragments chiefly confided to the wood-wind. A climax is achieved, whereafter the music gradually subsides and dies away.

The "Entr'acte" is played between third and fourth acts. Its character is rather that of a distraction or diversion from the dramatic situation, unlike that of most of the foregoing numbers. It is a brisk, exhilarating and virile piece, employing the full resources of the modest orchestra for which it is scored.

Finally, in striking contrast to the foregoing number, both in character and in its relevance to the drama, is the deeply moving little piece descriptive of "The Death of Mélisande," which is the introduction to Act V, Scene 2. It begins with a passage for muted strings alone. After the wood-wind has intervened momentarily the strings resume their lament and the whole orchestra then participate in a passionate outburst of grief. The piece ends as it began, with muted strings alone.

Note by CECIL GRAY for the Sibelius Festival.

=== Page 12 ===
A selection of recorded orchestral works by
BEETHOVEN, MOZART, BERLIOZ & SIBELIUS

BEETHOVEN
The Symphonies
*No. 1 in C major Op. 21 B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra (Toscanini) DB3537-39 & DB3540
No. 2 in D Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra (Clemens Krauss) C2030-32
No. 3 ("Eroica") London Philharmonic Orchestra (Koussevitzky) DB3366-68
No. 5 in C minor Op. 67 London Philharmonic Orchestra (Koussevitzky) DB3384-86
No. 6 in F Op. 68 (Sinfonia) B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra DB3333-37
No. 7 in A Op. 92 New York Philharmonic Orchestra (Toscanini) DB3866-69
Concerto in D Op. 61 for Violin and Orchestra. Kreisler and the London Philharmonic Orchestra (Jascha Heifetz) DB3927-30
Concerto No. 5 in E flat major Op. 73 ("Emperor") Moisewitsch with the London Philharmonic Orchestra (George Szell) DB3448-57
* Coriolan * Overture Op. 62. London Symphony Orchestra Bruno Walter C23638
Leonore Overture No. 3. Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra (Bruno Walter) DB2885-86
Egmont Overture. Dresden State Opera Orchestra. C2780

MOZART
Symphony No. 36 in C (K547) B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra (Fritz Busch) DB2191-93
Symphony No. 28 in C (K200) Berlin College of Instrumentalists (Fritz Stein) C2929-30
Symphony No. 40 in G minor (K550) London Philharmonic Orchestra (Koussevitzky) DB3212-14
"Jupiter" Symphony Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra (Bruno Walter) DB3428-30
"Prague" Symphony (K504). Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra (Bruno Walter) DB3112-14
Concerto No. 1 in D, (K314) Mozart with his Chamber Orch. DB3856-59
Concerto in G (K453). Edwin Fischer with his Chamber Orch. DB3302-44
Concerto in C minor (K491). Edwin Fischer and the London Philharmonic Orchestra (Lawrence Collingwood) DB3390-92
Concerto in D minor (K415). Bruno Walter (pianist and conductor) with Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra DB3273-75
Concerto in F (K491). Schnabel and the London Symphony Orchestra (Dr. Malcolm Sargent) DB3065-67 and DB3068
Concerto in G (K467). Schnabel and the L.S.O. DB3099-102
Sonata in C (K330) and Romance in A flat (K. Anh. 205). Edwin Fischer DB3424-25
Quartet in A (K298). Pasquier Trio with RENE LE ROY DB3365
Eine kleine Nachtmusik (Serenade) (K253) Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra (Bruno Walter) DB3075-76

UNSURPASSED RECORDINGS of MOZART OPERAS
The Society records of Mozart Operas have established a standard by which other performances can and will be judged. Their authoritativeness is beyond dispute or question: the artists are the best living and the recording is faultless. With these records you are able to enjoy and study perfect performances of Le Nozze di Figaro, Cosi fan Tutte, Don Giovanni and Die Zauberflöte.
Full details can be obtained from your dealer or from the Secretary, 95, Clerkenwell Road, E.C.1.

BERLIOZ
Le Carnaval Romain Op. 9.—Overture. Boston Promenade Orchestra (Arthur Fiedler) C3925
*"The Damnation of Faust"*
Hindemith March and Minuet of the Will o' the Wisps. Boston Symphony Orchestra (Koussevitzky) DB3369
Presto and Waltz. Boston Symphony Orchestra. (Koussevitzky) DB3301
Rakoczy March. Philadelphia Orchestra (Stokowski) DB3187
Les Francs Juges — Overture. B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra (Sir Adrian Boult) DB3131-2

SIBELIUS
Finlandia—Symphonic Poem. Philadelphia Orchestra (Stokowski) DB3184
Karelia Suite. Alla Marcia and Intermezzo. London Philharmonic Orchestra C2985

Symphony No. 1 in E Minor, Op. 39. Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra (Eugene Ormandy) DB2798-99
Symphony No. 2 in D Major, Op. 43. Boston Symphony Orchestra (Koussevitzky) DB2598-2603 and DBS 2604
Swan of Tuonela—Lemminkainen Suite in C Op. 22. Philadelphia Orchestra (Stokowski) DB1997
En Saga—A Legend. New Symphony Orchestra (Eugene Goossens) C1904-95

SIBELIUS SOCIETY
This Society is recording Sibelius's major works, and five volumes at 2 Gns. each are now available. Your dealer can get these records for you.
Vol. I—"Pohjola's Daughter" Symphony No. 5 in E Flat. "Tapiola." London Symphony Orchestra. (Kajanus) DB3185
Vol. II—Symphony No. 3 in C. London Symphony Orchestra (Kajanus) DB3186
Symphony No. 7 in C. B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra (Koussevitzky) DB3187
Vol. III—Symphony No. 6 in D Minor. Finnish National Orchestra (Schneeweigl) DB3188
String Quartet in D Minor, Op. 56. Voices Intima. Budapest String Quartet DB3189
Vol. IV—Violin Concerto in D Minor, Op. 47. Heifetz and the London Philharmonic Orchestra. Conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham, Bart. DB3190
"Night Ride and Sunrise"; "The Oceanides." B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra (Sir Adrian Boult) DB3191
Vol. V—Symphony No. 4 in A Minor. Lemminkainen zieht heimwärts, Op. 22, No. 4. Excerpts from "The Tempest." London Philharmonic Orchestra. Conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham, Bart. DB3192

=== Page 13 ===
ROLLS-ROYCE
The Best Car in the World

=== Page 14 ===
4.

Concerto in C for Flute ... ... ... ... Grétry
RENÉ LE ROY 1741-1813

Allegro
Larghetto
Allegro

Grétry and César Franck are the two musical glories of the City of Liége, but they have little in common. Grétry was above all else a composer of popular and melodious operas of which he wrote forty-seven, first for the Opéra Comique and later for the opéra, and of these more than half was successful. His most famous productions are "Le Tableau parlant" (1769), "Zémire et Azore" (1771), "Céphale et Procris" (1773), and "Richard Coeur de Lion" (1784). His other vocal works include an early Mass and some cantatas written for national occasions under the Revolution. His instrumental works are comparatively few in number. They include an early set of six symphonies; two quartets for harpsichord, flute, violin and bass; and some trios and sonatas. From early days he appears to have given attention to the flute. He spent eight years in Rome—1759-1767, and it was a flute concerto—this or another—which provided the occasion and the means for his long desired migration to Paris. There was at that time an English peer who played the flute and was prepared to pay liberally for compositions for that instrument. Grétry's concerto came under his notice and pleased him so well that the outcome was the composer's journey, first to Geneva and then to Paris where he made his name and fortune.

5.

Menuet des Follets ...
Danse des Sylphes ...
Marche Hongroise ...

From "The Damnation of Faust") Berlioz
1803-1869

Danse des Follets.
Danse des Sylphes.
Marche Hongroise.

In 1828 Berlioz came under the spell of Goethe's Faust in Gérard de Nerval's French translation. He records in his Memoirs: "This wonderful book fascinated me straight away; I never left it; I read it constantly at table, at the theatre, in the streets, everywhere. This prose version contained some versified fragments, songs, hymns, etc. I yielded to the temptation to set them to music; and this difficult task was hardly finished before I had the idiocy—without having heard a note of my score—to get it printed at my expense." The passage is given as quoted in W. J. Turner's recent biography. Thus originated the Eight Scenes

=== Page 15 ===
MASTER MUSICIANS WHO RECORD FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS

Orchestral and Banj
SIR THOMAS BEECHAM
WILLEM MENGELBERG and His Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam
FELIX WEINGARTNER
STRAVINSKY
BRUNO WALTER
SELMAR METROWITZ

Instrumental
HARRIET TAYLOR - Piano
IRENE SCHRARRER - Piano
ANIA DORFMANN - Piano
FRIEDMAN - Piano
WALTER GIESKING - Piano
EGON PETRI - Piano
ANATOLE KITAIN - Piano
LOUIS KENTNER - Piano
KIRCH - Piano
HUBERMAN - Violin
JOSEPH SZEGETI - Violin
NATAN MILSTEIN - Violin
PAUL HINDEMITH - Viola
EMANUEL FRIEDMANN - Cello

Vocal
EYA TURNER - (Soprano)
NORMAN ALLIN - (Bass)
The Hon. W. BROWNLOW - (Baritone)
DINO BORGIOLI - Tenor
HUBERT EISDELL - Tenor
CHARLES KULLMAN - Tenor
TINO ROSS - Tenor
MALCOLM McCAGHERN - Bass
HELEN NASH - Tenor
DENNIS NOBLE - Baritone
MARK RAPHAEL - Baritone
GEORGES WILLIAMS - Tenor
HAROLD WILLIAMS - Baritone

Chamber Music
LENER STRING QUARTET
LONDON STRING QUARTET
ROTH STRING QUARTET

Why Not Order These Records...

WITH SIR THOMAS BEECHAM conducting the LONDON PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA

Beethoven
SYMPHONY No. 2 in D. Four Records, LX586 9 (6s. each) in Album (free) complete, 24s.

Mozart's
SYMPHONY No. 29 in A (K201). Three Records, LX586-8 (6s. each).
SYMPHONY No. 40 in G minor (K556). Three Records, LX656-8 (6s. each).
SYMPHONY No. 41 ("Jupiter") in C (K551). Three Records, LX282-5 (6s. each).
SYMPHONY ("Paris") in D (K297). Three Records, LX54-6 (6s. each).

Beethoven SYMPHONY No. 2 in D. Five Records, LX515 9 (6s. each) in Album (free) complete, 30s.

Delius' SUMMER NIGHT ON THE RIVER. In two parts. Record L814 (4s.).
Handel's SUITE DE BALLET—Origin of design. In two parts. Record L224 (6s.).
Haydn SYMPHONY No. 93 in D. Three Records, LX721-3 (6s. each).
Haydn SYMPHONY No. 99 in E flat. Three Records, LX805-7 (6s. each).

Ask your Dealer to let you hear them!

In addition to the celebrity works here shown, Sir Thomas with the L.P.O. has recorded several popular Orchestral Favourites of these together with other recordings by the London Concert for, will be gladly sent you on request by Columbia of 98-108, Clerkenwell Road, London, E.C.1.

WITH SIR THOMAS BEECHAM in a selection of Masterworks including recordings of works by the Composers in today's programme—
BEETHOVEN
BERLIOZ
MOZART
and SIBELIUS

Berlioz'
CARNIVAL ROMAIN—Overture (Op. 9). In two parts. Record LX570 (6s.)

Sibelius'
FESTIVO (Tempo di Bolero). (No. 3 of "Scenes Historiques"). In two parts. Record LX501 (6s.).
FINLANDIA Tone Poem (Op. 26, No.7). In two parts. Record LX501 (6s.).
Offenbach' TALES OF HOFFMANN—Barcarolle and Excerpts. Record LX539 (6s.).

Rossini' ROSSINIANA Selection. Two Records, LX391-2 (6s. each).

Schubert SYMPHONY No. 5 in B flat. Four Records, LX785-7 (6s. each) and LX788 single-sided (3s.) in Album (free), complete, 21s.

Schubert SYMPHONY No. 8 ("Unfinished") in B minor. Three Records, LX666-8 (6s. each).

Records of Music from To-day's Programme

Berlioz' DAMNATION OF FAUST—
Hungarian March Record
Dance of the Sylphs Record LX702 (6s.)
Minuet of the Will Record
o' the Wisps ... LX703 (6s.)

SIR THOMAS BEECHAM conducting the London Philharmonic Orchestra

Beethoven Symphony No. 1 in C. Three Records (6s.) each in Art Album (free) complete, 18s.

WEINGARTNER conducting the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra.

All the Beethoven Symphonies (Nos. 1 to 9) have been recorded on Columbia by Felix Weingartner—a great recording achievement of special interest and enjoyment to all Beethoven music lovers. Full particulars of this brilliant work will be gladly sent you on request, either by your local dealer or by the Columbia Company (address opposite).

Columbia Records

=== Page 16 ===
from Faust which were, however, subsequently withdrawn from circulation, but the composer was far from abandoning the subject. It was frequently in his mind and when, seventeen years later, he was travelling in Central Europe, he reverted, to it, incorporating most of the eight original scenes in a much larger work, the dramatic legend or concert opera known as The Damnation of Faust. In the Memoirs he writes: "While trailing round Germany in my old postchaise, I composed my Damnation of Faust. Each movement is punctuated by memories of the place where it was written. For instance the Peasants' Dance was jotted down by the light of a shop gas-jet one night when I had lost myself in Pesth, and I got up in the middle of the night at Prague to write the song of the angelic choir." Portions were composed at Vienna and on the Danube steamers. He returned to Paris in April, 1846, and arranged to have this work performed. It was given at the Opéra Comique, December 6th, 1846, and repeated on December 20th, both performances being poorly attended.

In the complete work the three excerpts played to-day have their place in reversed order. The Dance of the Will-o'-the-Wisps takes place in the third of its four parts, or acts. The scene is before Marguerite's house, where Mephistopheles calls upon the spirits of caprice to enchant and subdue her soul. It is fantastically scored, and based on two themes, to which is added in the coda a reference to Mephistopheles' Serenade.

Dance of the Sylphs occurs in the lovely scene on the banks of the Elbe. Faust, rejuvenated, has fallen asleep and Mephistopheles, sending him dreams of Marguerite, summons the sylphs to hover over him with promises of bliss to come. It is scored with the most fascinating delicacy.

The story of the Hungarian March is more involved. In the course of the above-mentioned tour in Central Europe Berlioz arrived at Vienna on November 3rd, 1845, and found many friends there, one of whom—possibly Liszt—lent him a collection of Hungarian national airs. Among them was that of the Rakoczy March, which has a curious history. The original tune was somewhat rudimentary, but in 1809, on the eve of the war which was to bring Napoleon's army to Vienna, John Bihari (1769-1827), a well-known Hungarian violinist-composer of those days, based a march upon it which he played on his violin to Nicholas Scholl, the bandmaster of the "Prince Esterhazy" Regiment. The latter saw its possibilities and orchestrated it. When the regiment marched to Raab to join the main body of the army it was played by the regimental band, and became so popular that Scholl promptly had it published as his own composition. Not only did it retain its popularity, but it became intimately associated with Hungarian aspirations towards national independence. This is the tune that attracted Berlioz so much that during his stay in Vienna, he wrote—according to his Memoirs, in one night—his well-known orchestral version of it.

=== Page 17 ===
At that time, in the restless "forties," the atmosphere in Hungary was heavily charged with political electricity. A storm was brewing which was to burst out later. In the circumstances it is not surprising to read in the composer's Memoirs that the first performance of this march in Budapest made a volcanic impression on an audience of patriots. The crescendo which leads to the recapitulation was accompanied by an even more striking crescendo of popular feeling, and the march had to be repeated. The occasion became, in fact, a patriotic demonstration such as few musicians have evoked since Rouget de Lisle wrote the "Marseillaise." The Hungarians asked Berlioz to dedicate the March to them, and he sent them a copy from Breslau, the next stage of his concert tour.

This is the march which Berlioz incorporated in the first part of the Damnation. The scene is a plain in Hungary, over which Hungarian troops are marching. As the composer explains in his Memoirs: "The extraordinary effect it produced at Budapest induced me to introduce it in 'Faust' by taking the liberty of placing my hero in Hungary at the beginning of the action." But Goethe's countrymen did not readily condone that "liberty"!

SIR THOMAS BEECHAM, Bart. ... ... ... ... "Columbia" Records
London Philharmonic Orchestra—"His Master's Voice" and "Columbia" Records

=== Page 18 ===
QUEEN'S
Sole Lessees

Tuesday Next,
HAROLD HOLT announces SECOND
HORO
THE WORLD RE

Prelude and Fugue in F minor - - - MENDELSSOHN
Sonata in E flat major, Op. 31, No. 3 - - - BEETHOVEN
Ballade in F minor, No. 4 - - - }
Scherzo in B flat minor, No. 2 - - - }
Two Mazurkas: C sharp minor, Op. 41 - - - }
F minor, Op. 7 - - - } CHOPIN

Stalls 15/- 12/- 10/6 8/6 6/- Grand Circle
Orchestra and

May be obtained from QUEEN'S HALL, CHAPPELL'S

=== Page 19 ===
AT A TOUCH

The perfect expression of genius needs a flawless medium. At a touch, the mellow chords of the Bluthner proclaim that here is an instrument worthy of the Master.

Baby Grands from 120 Gns.    Upright Grands from 75 Gns.

BLÜTHNER

For particulars apply to:
BLÜTHNER & CO. Ltd.
17-21 WIGMORE ST., LONDON, W.1

=== Page 20 ===
MORY
JUNE ROSES

Let Morny June Rose fragrance pervade all your Toilet and Bath Luxuries — bringing to you the true odour of the English Rose.

Perfume — from 3/6
Face Powder — from 1/9
Talcum Powder — from 1/6
Bath Dusting Powder from 2/-
Bath Essence — from 3/6
Bath Salts Tablets from 1/9
Bath Soap — 1/8 per tablet
Toilet Soap — 4/6 per box of 3 tablets

Obtainable from all leading Chemists and Stores throughout the world.
Made in England by MORY, REGENT STREET, LONDON.
World-wide in it's appeal to women of taste
