=== Page 1 ===
QUEEN'S HALL LONDON
Sole Lessees: Messrs. Chappell & Co., Ltd.

SCHNABEL
MOZART
SCHUBERT
SCHUMANN
Recitals
SECOND RECITAL
NOVEMBER 3rd, 1934
BECHSTEIN PIANOFORTE
ANALYTICAL PROGRAMME
SIXPENCE

Under the Management of
Messrs. IBBS & TILLETT, 124 Wigmore Street, London, W.1

=== Page 2 ===
When
SCHNABEL
plays
he uses a
BECHSTEIN
because, to him, the BECHSTEIN is more than an instrument of music. It has become a companion in the interpretation of his art.

In Schnabel's own words, "It is the realization of the ideal for hand and ear."

To support the artist's genius with reassuring strength and unswerving truth, to inspire him to greater efforts; to joyous heights and stirring depths, this is the mission of the
BECHSTEIN
In any BECHSTEIN you will find a new revelation of your musical dreams. At prices reasonable and on terms most accommodating.

C. BECHSTEIN PIANO CO., LTD.
28 BROOK STREET, LONDON, W. 1

=== Page 3 ===
In accordance with the requirements of the London County Council:
1. The public may leave at the end of the performance or exhibition by all exit doors and such doors must at that time be open. 2. All gangways, corridors, staircases and external passageways intended for exit shall be kept entirely free from obstruction, whether permanent or temporary. 3. Persons shall not be permitted to stand in any of the gangways during the seating, or to sit in any of the other gangways. If standing be permitted in the gangways at the sides and rear of the seating, sufficient space shall be left for persons to pass easily to and fro and to have free access to exit.

PROGRAMME
ANALYTICAL NOTES by EDWIN EVANS
(Author's Copyright)

Sonata in C minor (posthumous) - Schubert

Allegro
Adagio
Menuetto: Allegro
Allegro

This is the first of three sonatas, all composed in September 1828, the others being in A major and B flat major. The third is dated 26 September, 1828, eight weeks before Schubert's death. Ten years later Diabelli issued them as "Franz Schubert's Allerletzte Composition" with a dedication by the publishers to Robert Schumann.

The Allegro opens with a bold theme, followed by an energetic transition passage leading to the dominant of the relative major key, in which the second subject then makes its appearance. This is of more lyrical quality with a characteristic transient modulation to D flat. It is repeated in varied form, and then again in E flat minor, which extends the exposition beyond the usual length. As if to compensate for this the development section is short, though it introduces a new subsidiary which is to acquire importance later on in the coda. The recapitulation passes through the same stages, in the corresponding keys, as the exposition. The coda is impressive. According to Shedlock "the long descending phrase and the sad repeated minor chords at the close suggest exhaustion after fierce conflict."

The principal theme of the Adagio is intimately suggestive of, and probably inspired by Beethoven. A second subject follows, after which the first returns in slightly modified form. There ensues an episode, of more passionate nature, in the minor key, which is however rhythmically related to the principal theme. It leads back through the second subject to the first, from which is formed a moving coda, full of tenderness and regret.

The Minuet is remarkable for its metrical freedom. It defies the convention of the eight-bar phrase.

Had Schubert's posthumous publishers treated this sonata as they did the one in G, Op. 78, played at the last concert, they might have been

=== Page 4 ===
deceived by its rhythm into calling the Finale a tarantella, for that is the appearance presented by its opening and closing pages. It is one of those flights of imagination characteristic of Schubert, taking him from one key to another until an important middle section finds him in B major. But if phantasy appears to reign here, design is present in the proportions of the movement.

Kinderscenen (Scenes of Childhood)
Op. 15 - Schumann

Of Foreign Countries and People
A Strange Story
Catch me if you can
The Entreating Child
Happiness enough
A great event
Dreaming
At the Fireside
The Knight of the Hobby Horse
Almost too serious
Frightening
Child falling asleep
The Poet Speaks

On March 17th, 1838, Schumann wrote to his future wife, then Clara Wieck, somewhat after this fashion: "Before I forget it, let me tell you what else I have composed. Whether it was an echo of what you once said, 'that sometimes I seemed to you like a child,' I know not, but suddenly I had an inspiration. I felt as if I had wings and dashed off about thirty quaint little things, from which I have chosen twelve and called them Kinderscenen. You will like them, but of course you must forget that you are a virtuoso. They will all explain themselves, and are as easy as possible. I am very proud of them and make a great impression—especially on myself—when I play them." A little later he wrote to her "Play my Kreisleriana sometimes. An out-and-out wild love is to be found in some places, and your life and mine and many of your looks. The Kinderscenen are the opposite—peaceful and tender and happy, like our future." And when, ten years later, he wrote the "Album for the Young" he was careful to point out the difference between the two works: "The Kinderscenen are reminiscences of an old person for old folk, whereas the others are rather fore-shadowings, anticipations for young folk." When they were published, in 1839, Rellstab criticised them rather severely, whereupon Schumann pointed out to a friend that "of course the superscriptions came into existence afterwards and are nothing more than delicate directions for the rendering and understanding of the music."

=== Page 5 ===
Sonata in A major (K. 331) - Mozart

Andante grazioso
Minuetto
Alla Turca

This is the second of three which were composed at Salzburg in the latter half of 1779. These were the first of his piano sonatas to be published, and were issued in Vienna as Op. 6. The A major Sonata illustrates Mozart's remarkable freedom from the conventions of his day, for the sequence of movements evolved by Philip Emanuel Bach and his great disciple, Haydn, does not command his unswerving allegiance, and here we have an early example, possibly the earliest, of a sonata which opens with a set of variations. Add the pseudo-exotic character of the Rondo, which may have caused some shaking of venerable heads at the time, and there remains only the Minuet to stand for the true sonata as then established.

The graceful theme of the first movement is simplicity itself. In the variations it is, of course, elaborated rather than varied, for the contrapuntal variation of Bach was fast fading into musical history, and the revolution which Beethoven was to bring about was still a prospect of the future. Here we have six restatements of the theme in successive stages of adornment, but the ornamentation has all the charm of a period when elegance counted for much.

In the Minuet, however, which Shedlock regards as the gem of the sonata, we have a higher flight of imagination. Within the dimensions adopted for the Minuet of the period he contrives to present or suggest the substance of an ampler movement. Each section seems to have a double allowance of thematic material. Then there is the delightful contrast of the middle section, the Trio, with a touch of romantic tenderness, one of those occasional moments when Mozart seems to foreshadow Schubert.

Of the familiar Rondo alla Turca it is scarcely necessary to write. The Viennese conception of Turkish music was at that time mostly associated with percussion instruments—drums, bells, triangle, and so on—and obviously Mozart's intention was to convey a similar effect by means of the piano. In reality the Rondo is no more Turkish than the famous Interlude in Molière's Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme, but musicians in those days were not preoccupied with ethnological considerations.

Four Impromptus, Op. 142 - Schubert

Allegro moderato
Allegretto
Tema con variazioni
Allegro scherzando

The description "Impromptu" was given to these pieces not by Schubert himself, but by his publishers. This, the second set, appeared in 1838, ten years after the composer's death, with a dedication by the publishers to Liszt—a rather high-handed proceeding in the case of

=== Page 6 ===
the work of a dead composer, but one which, as it happened, was justified in the end, for it was Liszt who long afterwards described Schubert as le musicien le plus poète que jamais.

Schumann suspected here portions of a sonata. This is what he wrote: "The first is evidently the first movement of a sonata, so perfectly carried out and concluded that no doubt can exist about it. I consider the second impromptu to be the second movement of the same sonata; in key and character it fits it precisely . . . Perhaps the fourth impromptu may be regarded as the finale, yet, if the key be in favour of this supposition, the volatility of the whole plan is opposed to it."

Few will venture to disagree with Schumann concerning the first Impromptu which, he says "seems to have been written during a pensive hour, as if while meditating on the past." It is in F minor, and in sonata-form, though Schubert would not be likely to sacrifice his freedom.

The second Impromptu is in the relative major, A flat. In mood also it corresponds to the preceding movement, so that it may well have belonged to the same projected sonata. It has a Trio in D flat.

The theme of the third Impromptu, in B flat, closely resembles that of one of the entr'actes composed in 1823 for Helmina von Chezy's drama of Rosamunde, Princess of Cyprus, the orchestral parts of which were discovered by Grove and Sullivan in 1867. When the variations were written is not known, but Schumann hints that they may be a work of Schubert's boyhood, in which case this would be the older form of the theme. It is followed by five variations.

The fourth Impromptu, like the first, is in F minor, conceived in a very different vein. As Schumann says, its mood is difficult to comprehend, but it is equally difficult to understand how and at what point it reminded that composer-critic of Beethoven's "Anger over a Lost Penny." It has about it a certain suggestion of Schubert's Hungarian manner.

=== Page 7 ===
Remaining Recitals

NOVEMBER 10 at 3
Four Impromptus, Op. 90 - - SCHUBERT
Sonata, D major (K. 576) - - MOZART
Sonata, B major, Op. 147 - - SCHUBERT
Davidsbündler, Op. 6 (2nd Edition) - - SCHUMANN

NOVEMBER 17 at 3
Fantasia, Op. 17 - - SCHUMANN
Sonata, F major (K. 332) - - MOZART
Sonata No. 2, Op. 22 - - SCHUMANN
Sonata, A major, Op. posth. - - SCHUBERT

NOVEMBER 24 at 3
Sonata, A minor, Op. 143 - - SCHUBERT
Sonata, C major (K. 330) - - MOZART
Sonata, A major, Op. 120 - - SCHUBERT
Sonata, C minor (K. 457) - - MOZART
Fantasiestücke, Op. 12 - - SCHUMANN

DECEMBER 1 at 3
Moments musical, Op. 94 - - SCHUBERT
Sonata, B flat major, Op. posth. - - SCHUBERT
Sonata, C major (K. 309) - - MOZART
Carnaval, Op. 9 - - SCHUMANN

DECEMBER 8 at 3
Sonata, A minor, Op. 42 - - SCHUBERT
Papillons, Op. 2 - - SCHUMANN
Sonata, B flat major (K. 333) - - MOZART
Sonata, D major, Op. 53 - - SCHUBERT

TICKETS (including Tax):
Stalls and Grand Circle, 12/-. 9/-. & 6/-.; Balcony (unreserved), 3/-.; Area, 2/4
At Chappell's, Queen's Hall, and 50 New Bond Street, W.; usual Ticket Offices; and
IBBS & TILLETT, 124 Wigmore Street, W.1
Telephone: Welbeck 2325 (3 lines) Ticket Office: Welbeck 2328
Telegrams: "Organol, Wesdo, London" Hours, 10-5; Saturdays, 10-12

=== Page 8 ===
Discover a New Joy!

SCHNABEL WILL PLAY FOR YOU WHENEVER YOU WISH

To those who know only the old style of gramophone record, the excellence of present-day Recorded Music will seem incredible. The delicate apparatus and wonderful technique developed by "His Master's Voice" at their famous studios at St. John's Wood have made it possible for you to reproduce in the quiet and comfort of your own home, among your family and friends, exactly what you hear at an original performance.

Schnabel, universally acclaimed as the greatest Beethoven player in living memory, refused all inducements to record until two years ago when he heard new examples of "His Master's Voice" Recorded Music. He was so impressed and delighted that he contracted to record all Beethoven's major works—the Concertos for "His Master's Voice" and the Pianoforte Sonatas for the Beethoven Sonata Society. He has also recorded some of Mozart's chamber music, and every record is so faithful to his playing that it is impossible to believe that Schnabel is not in the room with you.

Won't you discover this new joy for yourself?

The possession of your own music—the privilege of arranging your own programmes—the expression of your own musical taste—that is possible only through Recorded Music.

Here is a selection from the repertoire of "His Master's Voice" Recorded Music played by Schnabel.

Concerto No. 1, in C major, Op. 15 (Beethoven), with the L.S.O. DB1690-4, 6/- each
Concerto No. 3, in G minor, Op. 37 (Beethoven), with the L.P.O. DB1940-4, 6/- each
Concerto No. 4, in G major, Op. 58 (Beethoven), with the L.P.O. DB1886-9, 6/- each
Concerto No. 5 ("Emperor"), in E flat major, Op. 73 (Beethoven), with the L.S.O. DB1685-9, 6/- each
Quartet in G minor (Mozart), with members of the Pro Arte Quartet. DB2156-8, 6/- each
Quintet in A major (Dvorak), with the Pro Arte Quartet. DB2177-80, 6/- each

The following is a list of Sonatas already recorded by Schnabel for the Beethoven Sonata Society. For full particulars write to the Secretary, Beethoven Sonata Society, 98 Clerkenwell Road, E.C. 1.

F sharp minor, Op. 78
E minor, Op. 101
C sharp, Op. 111
E major, Op. 14, No. 1
E flat major, Op. 27, No. 1
E major, Op. 31, No. 2
A major, Op. 2, No. 2
C sharp minor, Op. 27, No. 2
E flat major, Op. 81a
D major, Op. 28
G minor, Op. 2, No. 1
A flat major, Op. 110
F minor, Op. 57
B flat major, Op. 22
G major, Op. 49, No. 2

"His Master's Voice" Records
The Gramophone Co., Ltd., 98-108 Clerkenwell Road, London, E.C. 1.

MUSIC YOU SELECT YOURSELF
