default: [clap for synchronising video : [Sunday 20th July, Erakor with Litrapang (and Johnny Alfos)]
default: Nao olsem mi talem, ni nafsan, ag ku tae tli naflak gaag?
default: (L) Kineu a pi naflak nm̃aal
default: (NT) Go nametrau gaag ru pi teni esua?
default: (L) Tiawi neu i to Erontp̃au mai
default: (NT) Tiawi nanre ni apap? (L) ni apap
default: Nanre ni iak
default: tiawi neu i to Futuna mai
default: apu i pi teni Futuna i mai lak Erakor
default: (NT) Tkanwan kin i mai pak Erakor?
default: (L) A tap tae mau, teetwei, na, tiawi ru siwer, ru mai pak, mal, i lakor pi mal ni Amerika
default: ru siwer mai pak na Efat
default: (NT) Mal ni nafkal
default: (L) Mal ni nafkal. Wol wo tu
default: (NT) Me ag ku paakor sef ntau? (L) Kineu a paakor naentin forti tu
default: (NT) em̃rom nafkal (L) Em̃rom nafkal
default: ntau atlag Maj,
default: namba telef maj naentin forti tu
default: (NT) Ore, go malfanen, ipi maal gaag, ku tae tli tenen kin ku muurin
default: taosi kin nanre ni apap
default: tiawi neu i to Erontp̃au mai
default: malen kin i tao Erontp̃au
default: ru mai to, preg natkon gar Ep̃uuf
default: ru mai to Ep̃uuf
default: ru laap ru mai ru pak serser
default: tete tiawi ru pak Em̃el
default: tete tiawi ru pak not Efate
default: tete ru pak Efil
default: tete ru mai pak Ep̃ag, tete ru mai pak Erakor
default: tiawi ni Erakor ru mai to
default: Ep̃uf, ru su mai pak Ekasufaat
default: ru mai to Ekasufaat
default: ale ru mai preg natkon
default: tete ru mai preg natkon gar esa
default: mis i plaker, ru to sa ale mis ru preg
default: natowen gar esa, magko i pi laen ur esa
default: i nom ale ru po su pak elau Egiis
default: ru pake elau Egis, to elau Egiis ale ru po pak naor
default: ru pak naor ale tenen ru to
default: ru pak Ep̃ag, ru to Ekasufaat, ru tao Ekasufaat ru pak
default: Efatkepil
default: san ru sosoki Ernagir
default: ru to Ernagir, ale teni Efil ru tmalu Ernagir ru pak naor Efil
default: teni Ep̃ag ru pak Ep̃ag
default: tenen kin ru pak Em̃eel
default: gar ru pak Em̃eel
default: tene kin ru pak not Efate, not Efate
default: tete tiawi nen kin ru mai siwer teflan go kineu a taer
default: (NT) Malen ku tli Ep̃uuf, Ep̃uuf i pi namlas
default: (L) Ep̃uuf i pi namlas, me tiawi ru preg natkon gar wes
default: (NT) Me natkon fserser ko natkon iskei m̃as?
default: (L) Ru pi natkon fserser kin ru mai paakruk wes
default: Ale ru po frafer
default: me tete tiawi ru pnut pato
default: ru preg natowen gaar, i nom kin me ru po to mai, rXX mai
default: (NT) Go ag tu tae nagi ser natkon nen ru to Ep̃uuf?
default: (L) Tenen kin, a pan leka, me
default: a sup̃neki nagi
default: (NT) I lakor pi, a tap tae mau, me ser natkon i pitlak naflak knen? (L) Ore
default: (NT) Nafte kin i pi naflak taosi kin Erakor i pitlak naflak knen?
default: (L) Malen ru mai i pitlak naflak nm̃aal
default: naflak nm̃aal gar kin ru pitlak ntan esa, ru pan kon Ertap
default: Eum sanpe, i pi, iptilak naflak ni natograu
default: nawi natograu, gar kin i to Eum sanpe
default: Ale naflak ni natook
default: ga kin i to nanre ne
default: i to Ekasufaat pak Efatkepil, ale i pak
default: Sisaid, Vila Bes
default: naflak ni natook, nawi
default: natograu ipi nawi
default: (NT) Go ser natkon nen i to namlas
default: i pitlak naflak nen ru pi
default: tenen i pi ni namlas
default: go tenen kin ru to ntas, ru pitlak naflak nen ru paakor ntas (L) Ore ru pitlak naflak ne i to ntas
default: tete ru pitlak naflak nen i to ntan
default: i pitlak naflak kram
default: kram
default: (NT) Go Ep̃ag i pitlak naflak knen?
default: i pi nafte, Ep̃ag?  (JA) nlaken naflak ru pitkaskei, ru to ru lak
default: ru tigpiel
default: (NT) Go, ntau naentin fifti mana ag ku preg nafte esa?
default: Ku skul esa? (L) Kineu a skul naor
default: a kul naor naentin fifti, apap nigmam i pan pi polis
default: ale komam u pato taon
default: ntau i tool
default: naentin fifti faef,
default: naentin fifti siks, naentin fifti sefen
default: u mer ler pak natkon
default: (NT) Me ku skul sto
default: (L) A skul franis skul ntau inru
default: a tao franis skul, a mer skul Bahai
default: ntau inru inom kin me
default: apap neu i ler mai , go kineu me a ler mai
default: a lak, a pitlak ntau twenti
default: (NT) Go ku lak natam̃ool ni Erakor? (L) Ore
default: natam̃ool ni Erakor
default: (NT) Ku pitlak teesa ipi?
default: (L) A pitlak teesa ru pi twelef
default: (NT) Kerkerai!!
default: (L) Maarik neu i pi naflak kram, naflak ni ntas
default: me, naflak ni maarik naot, Waia
default: xx ga
default: (NT) Ku pe leka mal ni nlagwat?
default: nen i wat naor sees?
default: naentin fifti naen Kristof
default: (JA) Uma i mai naentin eiti sefen
default: (L) naentin fifti naen kin nlagwat i nom komam u nrookot mai pak Efat
default: malen u mai to Efat kin u preg natowen nigmam ur
default: natkon esa, preg ki natkon
default: u to sa. Tiawi nigmam nen ru siwer ur ser naor mai, ru to sa
default: ru mai, tete ru mat
default: tiawi neu inru, ra mat Eluuk
default: tiawi neu inru ra mer mat naor
default: nanre ni taos apap neu
default: i po mai mat Efat
default: (NT) Mama gaag (L) Mama neu apap ga i mat naor, iak ga
default: (NT) go papa ga ipi teni sa ko?
default: (L) Papa ni mama neu i pi teni Futuna
default: (NT) Nanre ni apap gaag? (L) Nanre ni apap neu i pi teni sa
default: (NT) Apap ga i pi ni esa, go mama ga i pi ni esa? (L) Ore
default: (NT) Go  a nrogo nen te natam̃ool ru tli na i pitlak
default: nafsan fserser nig Efat ... , malpei i pitlak nafsan laap ru tkos
default: (JA) Efat, ga i pi nafsan iskei m̃as, Em̃eel
default: go Efil m̃as ki rak p̃onp̃et ki nafsan ni Efat
default: Elop i pees go u tae (NT) U tae, me i
default: (JA) I nre
default: (NT) Go Masaleo?
default: te naat ru tli na Masaleo i pi nafsan iskei nanre ni Paonangisu? (JA) Misleo,
default: (NT) Matool pak Pangpang nlaken a muur na ka
default: spos i gat wan lanwis long we bae mi rikodem olgeta
default: (JA) Nafsan raon Efat, u nrus unrus
default: nre nre sees m̃as
default: Ertap go Erakor go Ep̃ag ru pes me, Eton
default: Pangpang ru pes, i nre
default: (L) Ru pes u nrog tae, me tete nafsan ru nrea
default: tete nafsan gar i taos nafsan nigmam i pitkaskei nafsan nigmam
default: ru nrea me u tae
default: (NT) Ku tae nagi natkon?
default: naur fserser?
default: [showing the maps in the dictionary of placenames]
default: (JA) I pitlak natkon seseerik
default: wel ga i mrotae to kin go ke fo tli
default: teetwei perkati
default: tiawi i nru nrus mai sampen mai pak Ekasufaat, me Ekasufaat mai pak sa, go san pak elag Egiis
default: i nrus mal ni namsaki
default: namsaki i mai, natam̃ool ru
default: ru msak kerkrai, ru matmat
default: mal ne hospital i tiik, ga wa m̃ol ntas
default: ru boil ki nafnag ntas, ru min ntas,
default: ru slati i pi meresin gar
default: (L) Kineu a pi tresura ni PWMU
default: ntau inru, ale
default: komam u to saisei
default: elol p̃ur go u saisei ki naur tep̃al, i tiik ki nasum̃
default: mal neu, neu a pi tresura, go a pregi
default: ru sat kapa, ale kineu a pei weluer ki
default: kapa i pi siks
default: ale a tli na kapa ki ko mer welu kineu ko sat
default: kapa ale tu preg nasum̃ gakit
default: esum̃ nen i to mees ne
default: naentin eiti
default: eiti faev kin a pi tresura ni PW
default: eiti fave go eiti siks
default: ru lao ki nasum̃ ni PW to tkal mees
default: (NT) Ku tae tete nalag ni malpei? Taosi kin nalag ni natrausuen?
default: (L) A metpakro
default: (JA) Nagi gaag fei? (NT) Kineu? Nick
default: (JA) oh! (NT) Malpei a matur skot William Wayane
default: (JA) Johnny Alfos
default-cp: Can you tell me your naflak?
default-cp: I am naflak nm̃aal (yam)
default-cp: And your family came from where?
default-cp: My people came from Erontp̃au
default-cp: On your father's side?
default-cp: On my mother's side
default-cp: her people cam from Futuna
default-cp: My grandfather was from Futuna and married in to Erakor
default-cp: How did he come to Erakor
default-cp: I don't know, bu tthey moved around, it was at the time of America
default-cp: they cam to Efate
default-cp: In the war
default-cp: yes, World War Two
default-cp: When were you born. (L) I was born in 1942
default-cp: in the war
default-cp: the month of March
default-cp: number 12 March 1942
default-cp: (NT) Ok, it is your time now, you can speak about what you want
default-cp: ok, on my father's side
default-cp: my peole came from Erontp̃au
default-cp: when they left Erontp̃au
default-cp: they came, they made a village at Bufa
default-cp: they came to Bufa
default-cp: many of them went different places
default-cp: some went to Mele
default-cp: Some went to north Efate
default-cp: some went to Vila
default-cp: Some to Pango, some to Erakor
default-cp: old people of Erakor they came to
default-cp: Bufa, they cqme down to Ekasufaat
default-cp: then they made a village
default-cp: some made their village here
default-cp: the missionary brought them and they made
default-cp: their lives here, he mangoes are a line they followed here
default-cp: then they went down to the coast at Egiis
default-cp: they went to Egiis, then they went to the island
default-cp: they went to the island
default-cp: they went to Pango, they went to Ekasufaat, they left Ekasufaat, then went  to
default-cp: Efatkepil
default-cp: The place they call Ernagir
default-cp: They were at Ernagir, those from Vila left Ernagir and went to Vila island
default-cp: those from Pango went to Pango
default-cp: those who went to Mele
default-cp: went to Mele
default-cp: Those that went to north Efate went to north Efate
default-cp: some old people that walked here, I know them
default-cp: (NT) When you say Bufa, it is the bush
default-cp: (L) Bufa is the bush, but the old people made their village there
default-cp: (NT) But lots of different villlages or just one?
default-cp: (L) They were different villages that grouped together
default-cp: then they split up
default-cp: but some old people stayed there
default-cp: they made their lives there,
default-cp: (NT) And do you know the names of the villages at Bufa
default-cp: I saw them, but
default-cp: I don't know the names
default-cp: (NT) And does each village have its own naflak?
default-cp: What is Erakor's naflak
default-cp: when they came there was naflak nm̃aal
default-cp: naflak nm̃aal , they had land here, they stopped at Eratap
default-cp: Teouma is the natograu naflak
default-cp: the yam, natograu, they are at Teouma
default-cp: And the natook naflak (yam)
default-cp: that is the one on that side
default-cp: it is at Ekasufaat to Efatkepil, then it went
default-cp: to Seaside and Vila Base
default-cp: the natook naflak
default-cp: natograu is a yam
default-cp: (NT) And each village in the bush
default-cp: it has a naflak that is
default-cp: from the bush
default-cp: and the ones at the sea, they have naflak that are of the sea (L) Yes, they have naflak of the sea
default-cp: and some have naflak that are of the land
default-cp: there is naflak kram (clam)
default-cp: clam
default-cp: And does Pango have a naflak?
default-cp: they exchange (women)
default-cp: And what did you do in the 1950s?
default-cp: did you go to school here? (J) I went to school on the island
default-cp: nineteen fifty, then out father went to be police
default-cp: we lived in town
default-cp: for three years
default-cp: 1955
default-cp: 1956, 1957
default-cp: we came back to the village
default-cp: did you go to school in town
default-cp: I was at the French school for 2 years
default-cp: I left, and then went to Bahai
default-cp: two years, then
default-cp: my father came back and I came back
default-cp: I married when I was twenty
default-cp: (NT) Did you marry someone from Erakor (L) yes
default-cp: Erakor man
default-cp: (NT) How many children?
default-cp: (L) I have 12 children
default-cp: (NT) Strong
default-cp: My husband is naflak kram, a sea naflak
default-cp: the naflak of the chief Waia (Tenene)
default-cp: (NT) Have you seen cyclones?
default-cp: that hit the small island
default-cp: 1959, Christophe
default-cp: Uma hit in 1987
default-cp: (L) 1959 after the cyclone, we crossed over to Efate
default-cp: when we came to Efate we made our life
default-cp: in the village here
default-cp: we stay here. Our old people walked all ov er, they are here
default-cp: they came, some died
default-cp: our two old people, they died at Eluuk
default-cp: our two old people, they died at the island
default-cp: on my father's side
default-cp: he died on Efate
default-cp: My mother , her father died on the island
default-cp: is your father from here?
default-cp: my mother's father is from Futuna
default-cp: My father's family is from here
default-cp: and your father's mother too (L) Yes
default-cp: I have heard some people have
default-cp: different languages from Efate,
default-cp: (JA) Efate is just one language, Mele
default-cp: and Ifira are different from Efate languages
default-cp: Lelepa speaks and we can hear it
default-cp: it is turned
default-cp: some people tell me Masalaeo is a language of Painangisu (JA) Misleo
default-cp: I'm going to Pagpang because I want to
default-cp: (JA) language round Efate it is close up
default-cp: turned just a little
default-cp: Eratap, Erakor, Pango , they talk, and Eton
default-cp: Pangpang talks, they turn is a little
default-cp: (L) They speak and we understand, but some language is turned
default-cp: some of their language is like ours, it is the same as our language
default-cp: they turn it, but we know
default-cp: Do you know names of villages? (showing the map of places from the dictionary)
default-cp: different places?
default-cp: (JA) There are small vilalges
default-cp: if she recognised them she would tell
default-cp: long ago
default-cp: old people moved toe Ekasufaat, to here, to Egiis
default-cp: they came in teh time of sickness
default-cp: the sickness came, people were sick and dying, from malaria, diarhea
default-cp: then there was no hospital, just salt water
default-cp: you boil food in seawater, they drank seawater
default-cp: they took it, it was their medecine
default-cp: (L) I was treasrur of the PWMU
default-cp: for 2 years
default-cp: we would meet
default-cp: we met on a large yard or a clearing, we had no house
default-cp: in my tiem, when I was treasurer, I made
default-cp: that we got tin, I helped them
default-cp: to get six tin sheets
default-cp: I said, here's tin, you help me
default-cp: to get tin to make our house
default-cp: the house that is there today
default-cp: 1985 I was treasurer of the PW
default-cp: 85 and 86
default-cp: they set up the PW building, there til today
default-cp: Do you know any songs from long ago, like songs from stories?
default-cp: I forget